ee taht tet

t

YEAR NUMBER, 1

. THURSDAY, JANUARY 2, 1862.

- Pererteeted

The Mpper Branche
sid Bu

, raom THE GERNAN OF JULIUS STURM.

Pain’s furnace-heat within me quivers,
God's breath upon the tame doth blow,
And all my heart in anguish shivers
Aad troubies at the fiery glow;
And yet f whisper—As God will!
* And; in His hottest fire, hold still.

He comes and lays my heart, all heated,
~ On the hard anvil, minded so

Inta his own fair shape to deat it,

» With his great banner, Wow on blow;
And yet I whisper—As Gad will!

And, at his heaviest Viows, hold still.

Ile takes my softened heart, and heats it,
The sparks fly off at every Diow;
> He tars it o’er and o’er, and heats it,
Au lets it cool, and makes it plow;
And yet I whisper—As God will!
And, in His mighty hand, bold still.

Why should L marmur? for the sorrow
 Thas only longer-lived: would be;
Its‘end'may come, snd will, to-morrow,
When God has done his work in me;
So [ say, trusting—As God will!
And, (rusting tg the end, hold still,

Me kindles for.my profit, purely,
,  Affliction’s glowing, fiery brand,
~ And all his heaviest blows are, surely,
Ps Inttieted by a Master-hand;
“ » So Laay, praying—As God wilt
* And Rope in Him, and suffer still.
And Rope V --Charles T. Brooks.

ot Phe. Boonomy of Human Lifo.

‘ Mo. XXII. Benevolence.

When thou considerest thy wants, when thou be
holdest thy imperfections, acknowledye his goud-
ness, O man! who honored thee with refson, on-
dowed thee with specch, and placed thee in society
to receive and confer reciprecal helps and muted
obiications. .* ; .

Thy food, thy clothing, thy convenience of habi-
tation, thy protection from the injuries, thy enjoy-
ment of the comforts and the pleasures of lite, thou
owest to the assistance of others; and couldest not
enjoy but in the hands of socicty.

Whe thy duty therefore to be fricudly to man-
kind; as it is thy interest, that mon should be
friendly to thee. . .

‘As the rose breatheth sweetness from its own ua-
tare, s0 the heart of a benevolent man prodaceth
gent works. a, F

tid enjoyeth the ease and tranquility of his own
bdeast; ‘sind rejoiceth in the happiness and pros-
- parity of ble neighbor.
fle) nat his car unto slander; the faults
- apd the fall

of'men give pain to his heart.
 Hifis déslre Ia.todo yood; and he searcheth out
‘the decasions thereof;.in removing the oppression
of another he relieveth himself.
“From the larzeness of bis mind; ke comprehend-
ef inbis wishes the bappincea of all men; and
_ feggn the generosity of his heart, ho endcavoreth to
proniote it. . ° . .

Che Pal,
“THE APBICANS AT HOME."

BY REY. ROM: MACBRAIR, MUA.
a Beene
Las CHAPTER 1X.. ae
*> Kaatrard from Say—Gando—Royal Covctousncas— Sockotu
—Sultan Belloe-Civet Cats—An Iypudent Exécutioner—
Womo~Sultar? ‘Y= diner Mota”
Guost—

Sultan-—-Royal srocession~Méni and AVomen--Mark
Court of Justice—More of the Desert-—Narrow Escap. | -

Effvcts of Thirst—Route by Rilma—Skeletons—Fato, ‘of

Couriers—-Mutual Fears—Jlood Feuds—-Salt Lak i

Surgical Operation—Sons of tho Desert~Plundering.

' We must now return to Say; whore we
left the Niger, and proceed on our travels
eastward, in order to visit one of the most
populous -and powerful regions of Africa.
Lhis country: has the general appollation of
the; [Towssa States, and contains several small
and tributary kingdoms or provinces, ag Gan-
do, Sockotu, Katsena.

Canoes of all sizes are ready to transport
you and. your effects across the river‘at Say.
But if your luggage is very bilky, you must
have one of the larger sort. ‘Such a boat is
about forty feet in length, and:four to five!
fect in width in the middle; formed of two;
hollowed trunks of trées sewn together in the |
centre. It till carry three camels, The:
stream is here contracted by a rocky bank, |
and is only about 700 yards broad, but has |
a noble appearance.

The main route from this place eastward is |
pretty much frequented; and the road is va-!
ried, being by turns rocky, woody, and swam- !
py: The people are poor, and the Village |
and towns of no particular interest. But;
here is a salt-hamlet, of which there are sev- |
eral in’ this locality! It adjoins a large
mound of rubbish about 200 yards square,
and from 20 to 50 in height, formed of the
mould of the valley from which the saline
partieles have been extracted. The carth of
ihe salt vale is put into large funnels made |
of straw and reeds ; so that when water is;
poured upon the carth, it is strained through
the funnels. Being received into vessels
placed underneath, it is boiled; and the sedi-
ment is formed into small loaves of salt. ‘The
product is of a greyish yellow color, and of
tolerable quality, especially for culinary pur-
poses. ‘The natives also extract salt from the
ashes of burnt grass, which has grown in a
brackish soil. Other kinds of salt are brought
from the desert ; but the produce of the pits
is of very different qualities.

This country, like that on the other sidé of
Say, is inhabited by Foolhe and Songhay,
and is in a very distracted condition, ‘T'rav-
cllers must keep a constant watch, to prevent
being surprised by sonie band of marauders.
The principal towns contains seven or cight
thousand inhabitants, and are all walled and
fortified. A singular incident. here befel one
of Dr. Barth’s camels. Tt went raving mad,
leaped about in the most ludicrous manner,
kicked in every direction, and at length fell
tu the ground. .

The next place of importanco is Gando,
the capital of the Kebbi district, and residence
of a powerful Pullo prince. He is a nephew
of the reformer Othman, and like all his rela-
tives, is a stern and bigoted Mussulman.
He gpends his life ina sceluded, monkish
mannor, and would not allow Dr. Barth to see |
bis holy face. The traveller was obliged to
Ieave its presents in the palace, without speak-
ing to his august occupant. © But the sancti-
ty of the sultan did not prevent his being
quite alive to his temporal interests, and try-
ing to extort the utinost from a straiger. At
first, he signified his approval of tlie presents
sent to him; but having heard that his guest
had given a pair of silver mounted pistols to
the emir of Sockotu, lie refused to let him ‘de-

"The full title of this book is: “The Africans at Home,
Being a Popular Description of Africa and the Africans, con-
densed froin the Accounts of African Travellers from ths
Time of Mungo Park w the Present Day. By tho Itev. R.
M. Macbrair, M. A., Author of the Mandingo and Foola
Grammars, kc. London: L Green, L and
Roberts. 1961” .

part unt he had received a similar gift. This
) Was very mortifying, as the pistols were re-
served for a person of more importance in
furthering the traveller’s interest ; but the
haly man would not be content with less. ‘The
town, which is situated ina narrow valley
and surrounded with walls, is only neted for
ifs onions and cotton cloth.

Sockotu, or rather Sackatu, is tho capital of
the province of Aunfara, and of one the chief
and most populous towns in Central Africa.
It is known to Kuropeans as the place where
the gallant Clapperton died, worn out with
sufferings and disappointments.
seem to require the patience of Job to travel
through these regions with anything like a
happy equanimity ; for
chiefs, great and small, try to detain the for-
ciguer as long as possible, in order to get
more presents from him, and through jealousy,
lest he should bestow his gifts on a neighbor
Sockotu is surrounded with a
good wall, between twenty and thirty feet
high, and has twelve gates, which are regular-,
ly closed at sunset. Ethas two large mosques,
besides other places for prayer ; and is
laid out in well arranged streets.
ings of the aristocracy consist of enclosures
* | containing several houses built in) Moorish
The inhabitants are chiefly Felattas,
. possessing numerous slaves ; and it is, there-
fore, a Muhometan city, though the people
are not so intolerant asin Timbuctu and
Jonné. The situation of the town is healthy,
being on a long ridge; but an adjacent marsh
and stagnant pouls cause it to be very agucish.

A stranger is first introduced to the vizier
The vizier, during Clapperton’s
sojourn in the town, wasan elderly man, very
polite, speaking Arabic exceedingly well.
‘The sultan scemed to live in greater simpli-
city than some of the ebiefs of inferior pluces.
Clapperton passed through several guard
houses, and was then introduced to Sultan
Bello, seated on a small carpet, between two
pillars which supported the roof.
and pillars were painted blue and white, in the
Moorish taste; and on the back wall was the
sketch of an ornamented fire-sereen.

Sultan Bello’s brother sold to Clapporton
some of the remains of Major Denham’s bag-
gage, which had been lost in a military foray
“He told me that. he
possessed a great many slaves ; and I saw
many females about his person, most of them
very beautful.”” . The prince kept civet. cats,
of which ha had 200.

all the kings and

ora rival,

The dwell-

style.

or gadado,

The walls.

which he had joined.

These animals were

He affirmed that it: would be his greatest
pleasure to help in drawing the nations to-
gether in bonds of amity, which would con-
dyee to the good of all ; and professed great
regret that Captain Clapperton, called Abd
Allah (‘servant of God??) had died in his
dominions, fearing lest this untoward’ event
might arouse the suspicion of Kuropeans.

At the next interview, when Dr. Barth
went to the palace with his presents, he
found Aliyu in a room built of reeds, sitting
ona wooden divan. The sultan is a stout
man, of middle size, with a round, fat, good-
humored face ; inheriting the features of his
mother, who was a Lowssa slave, rather than
those of his father. He was quite frank, and
had thrown off his paternal reserve, not even
using the face-covering worn by Pullo princes
in the presence of strangers, ITis dress con-
sisted of little more than a grey tobe or
smock-shirt. He was greatly pleased with
his presents, chiefly consisting of brocaded
garments of various colors, a carpet, razors,
looking-glasses, sugar and spices; but was
enraptured with the last offering, a pair of
silver mounted pistols, the like of which he
had never seen. With childish joy he fre-
quently exclaimed, “IT thank you, I thank
you ; God bless you, God bléss you.”

As the sultan was on the eve of departing
on a short expedition, and the ctiquette of
the country did not allow a distinguished
stranger to leave in his absence, Dr. Barth
was obliged to wait in the capital till his re-
turn. But Aliyu sent him 100,000 kurds,
equivalent to about 102, to defray his house-
hold expenses in the interim. Le also
furnished him with all the papers that he
desired. What a pity that. other sovereigns
do not resemble this negro prince in his
pacific and enlightened policy! Verily all
the wisdom of the world does not dwell in
Kurope and America,

One would like to see a real “city of the
desert,” if it were not for the dangers and
difficulties of the journey. In twenty days’
hard travelling from Wurno, you could reach
the ancient and royal city of Agades, once
the capital of a Desert empire, now ina half
deserted and ruinous condition. The danger
from robbers in this district is not great, if you
travel in eempany with one of the large salt
caravans, which aro under.tho protection of
powerful chieftains; thougli these are some-

does

‘companies of men are never secure in these
wild regions, The present inhabitants
chiefly consist of the Tagama, Kelgeres and

times attacked by a hostile tribe. Butsmall |

Kngland, of which ho had never heard,
though he had used “English powder.”’ He
expressed great indignation on hearing that
tho travellers had been ‘wronged by tribes
under his jurisdiction, who Trad deprived
them of presents intended for the sultan him-
self. Ile vowed vengeance for this offence,
which he afterwards made a pretext for en-
riching himself with the spoils of tkeso tribes ;
since one part of his. revenue’ consists of fines
levied on marauders. . The rest of his income
is derived from the presents or contributions
received at his accession, and:a small tax on
foreign merchaitdise and salt.

‘This sultan had -been deposed a few years
previously, to.make way for another; but a
restoration was effected ; and subsequently,
another change was made; so that, though
the people adhere to ono family of kings,
they seem to think that achange of porsons
“is lightsome.’’ His re-itistallation was now
at hand; and Dr. Barth witnessed the pro-
cession. ‘he ceremony,"was as. follows:
Abd Hl Kader was conducted from his
private apartment to the public hall. Then
the chiefs of two tribes, Itisan and Kelgores,
asked him to sit down on a couch made of
palm trees, covered-with mats and a carpet.
ie did so, but kept his fect on the ground,
till the chiefs of the Kelowi desired him to
lift them up on tho divan, and so recline
fully in astern . style. ‘This was to show
the joint investure of their new sovereign by
all these tribes. A procession was then
formed to the chapel or tomb of a Mahometan
saint outside the town, where the sultan said
his prayers, and on his return the company
dispersed.

In the procession, the new prince rode first
on a fine horse of the Taw, :i, a most famous
breed, wearing a fine robe of colored cotton
and silk, with a blue bernvose over it, andin
his girdle a golden-handled scimitar. . ‘Then
came several officers of the household, Next
rode the chiefs of the Itisan and Kelgeres, in
full dress ‘and armor, consisting of : sword,
dagger, long spear, ancl immense shield.
The sultan of the Kelowi followed, witha
long train of his people on swift camels.
‘The men of the town closed the’ procession,

omé on horselfack, but most on foot, armed,
eased in thicir best finery.’ Several of

~ wore very picturesque ;, and the

~g and mart.al appearance.

‘ondes are tall; with

b. pau, Ae and they al-
low their . wn tatrehanl
dem :

‘vans: When the sur: set, he intended to light

tree, under which-hoe ntight lic down. : After

to enjoy’ the little shade a fforded by the leaf-

most of the route;, water is scarce, and , ro-
visions are not easily obtained. Gold winds
and storms alternate with scorching heat “and
clouds of sand.

Wo to the unhappy traveller who deviates
from’ the ‘proper track, and gots*lost ‘in, the
desert! Llis fate may.be gathered from the
narrow. escapo of Dr. Barth, who left his com-
panions to visit'‘a remarkakle mountain near
which the ‘caravan: would’ pass. He: took
with him u few dry biscuits and dates, :which.
he soon found to be a very bad kind of food
without water. As the sun reached the ze-,
nith, the traveller got tired and exhausted,
and found at last that he was lost. In vain
he fired his pistols, to’ give a signal to- his
friends, and ascendcd. one mound after an-
other, to try and catch a glimpse of the:cara-

a fire, but could not. niuster strength to'gath-
er wood ; and therefoi'd scrambled to an ld:

reposing-tor an hour or two, he discovered a.
large fire in the ‘valley, which he hoped to
be that of his companion:3. He fired again
and again, but received rio response. THe
tried to sleep, but could not; and lay tossing
on the-ground, feverish and restless, longing.
for the dawn of day.. Collecting all his
strength, he then load.ed his pistols with a
heavy charge, and. fired once, twiec. The
sound stemed loud ¢ nough to wake the dead;
strongly did it echo and reverberate’ from the
opposite hills, and r oll round: the’ valley:; but:
all in vain. ;

“The sun that I had half ‘longed for, half
looked forward to. with» terror, at. last’ rose.
My condition, as the he. at went on increasing,
became more dreadfus ¢ nd T crawled around,
changing every moment my position, in order

less-branches of the tree. « \bout noon, there
was, of course, scarecly a sf ‘ot ofsshide left—
only enough for my head, and I ‘suffered

greatly from the pangs of. thir.st,. although :I:

sucked a-little of my blood, t ill I became.

senseless,-and fell into a sort of delirium,.

from. which I only recovered w' hen the sun
went down behind the niountai: ys, “I “then
regained’ somo consciousness, : ind crawled
out of the shade of.the tree, thro wing a ‘mel-
ancholy glance ovét the plain, whee sudden-
ly I heard the cry of-a camel. - It was” the

‘most delightful music I ever heard in v.-y:

‘an-enemy. Great, joy it is when. the, stran-,

‘Ghinis are loaded, the-cattle are sent into the
rear, arid’ themen: form in front,.as if to meesi

‘gers are discovered to-be friendly, when they
-can exchange salutations and news, and fu
nish each other by barter witli any commodi

When different tribes of Arabs meet, thére
is another: danger- besides’ that. of: bandits
There may be a blood-feud between the par

_one of his clan has ‘been ‘murdered, hé ‘must’
‘of his friends. « Retaliation’ follows ; and thus

‘through successive generations. ,

“Two Mesuratas (Arabs of a town’ near
Tripoll), who bad killed-a Tibbu chief : and
his followers two years before, were of our|a
party; and .although the Tibbu: had: taken
‘amplo vengeance by murdering twenty-five
-men for eight, five of whoni they had “assas-
sinated in the night since our passing” the }’

water; as!
ties. If an Arab’s friend, kinsman, or.even She'in-

avenge his death on thé criminal.’ or’ on“ one min :
W. ne. Pas 3

‘a blood-feud is perpetuated from father to'son,|treatmen.. == cron
in with themselves. ~ It is
of: who, happensiito- be the iow?
They are- perfect edepta ty:

are not inferior to the- men,

Aen:

cared ‘nothitig’ about Wie ehiet ante “lie
either.” :: This heriditdeihe: a
ty that cither may stand in need’of:*“ ~- --|'a thousand, who subsist chieig:

ly =

in plundering ;.and in

[70 we contorvse:] © |

ros, yet they contindcd. thore- was blood be-}+
_tween them, and we all feared a disturbanes.
- This morning: it broke out, and was very near

sacked their whole town.” 7
It seems that-a-relation of the deceased

uratas, and talking of the death of his kins
man, shook his spear-at the Arab, who seized
his gun and:shouted the alarm. Both. par-

- nent.
chant, however, went unarmed to the Tibbu
(who were evidently afraid ‘of the’ Arabs),
declared tho cause of:the offence, and poitited
out the offerider, wlio they said ‘ought :to be

by: his:decision;:and then, in ipresénce: of the
chiefs of both.sides, opened:the: Koran, and:
read-thorefrom. It was-found ‘written, thet
nm +

life's" and “raising myself'a little from t’ ¥

ground, I'saw a mounted: Tarki ’ passip
same diatanen fram ma ond: looking: e

Arab, who could and ‘did’ prove, that ‘th
Tibbu chiof*had ‘raised “his |
2d, ‘armed with a spear, to. atta

- Dxsorariox.ow Jura.
from Jaffa to J
‘ being serious ;. tho Arabs’ ‘guns were twice could be found any here, Id
; presented, aid had ‘any, blood ‘been spilt on ich a grass; thou

either side; we should have probably been all | for it a8 one: would: search:.fer.‘a

much a8 oné'blad
prisoners to the Tibbu, or if victorious.: have ‘This is to me very, strange,,for I keow tha}.

in England, grass will. grow..where nothing
elae will ; but bere, neither amon Ste fine ‘
Maio

Among
i iont of onc of the Mea-| stubble fields, nor even along’ the’ r
chief went'to the tent of ‘where no-plou ah comen} waa 10° 0d (ound “0°!
much as what might with strict? propriety he:
called a-blade of grass. ..T
ties flow: to arms, and a fight ‘seemed ‘immni-|.very astonishing. Not having,seen th } ove
Captain Denham and a Fezzan_mer-|.taken notice of in books of travel’ that I

punished., ‘The digpute was afterwarig .re-|.that was brought into |
ferred to Hadj Mohammed Abedeon, to, be about " uty: our inba
decided “acpording to the book.” ° He ‘first| ten or twelve quart
made the parties swear that'they‘ would abide |emall quantity “was: gout

1

-. This is something

very ferocious, and wero confined in separate
wooden cages.
jlong,.from the nose td the tip of tho.tail; and’
{ resembled a small hyena, oxeopt ia che great |
or length of body and tail, “ ™
with pounded. Guinea. ‘corr
ma

They were about four feet

i)

Vjnto, balls’ © Me Aten

USELO | aQuriug Wa..e..
imal was thrust into'a corner, wu ao uean
held ‘down: with a stick.

‘Twas sitting in the shade before my '
door, with Sidi Sheik, the sultan’s fighi, '

when an ill-looking wieteh, with a fiend-like
grin on his countenaneé, came and placed
himself directly before me. I asked Sidi
Sheik who he was? He answered. with great
composure, ‘ ‘I'he exeeationer.’ I ‘instant-
ly ordered my servants toturn him out. ‘Be
patiént,” said Sidi Sheik, laying his hand on
mine, ‘he visits the first people in Sockotu,
and they never allow lim to go away without
giving him a few goora nuts, or money to
buy them.’ In compliance with this hint, I
requested forty cowries to be given to the
fellow, with strict orders never again to cross
my threshold.’ ‘Phis villain had applied to
the governor for the office of executioner,
which his own brother then held, boasting of
his superior adroitness in the family vocation.
The governor said, “We will try;—go fetch
your brother’s head.” The wretch immedi-
ately went to his brother’s house, and find-
ing him quietly sitting in the doorway, struck
off his head at one blow with a sword, giv-
ing him no warning whatever of his mission.
He carried the bleeding trophy to the gover-
nor, and claimed the promised office, which
was “given to him. Ife has had plenty of
work to do, ‘he capital punishments inflict-
ed in Sudan are beheading, impaling, and
crucifixion ; the first being inflicted on Ma-
hometans, the two latter on pagans. Wretches
linger on the cross for a period of three
days, before death terminates their sufferings,

During Clapperton’s stay in Sockotu, pro-
visions were regularly sent him from the sul-
tan’s table on pewter dishes, with the London
stamp ; and one day, meat was served to
him ma white wash-hand basin of English
manufacture.

A little north of Sockotu is Wurno, the
capital of the great sovereign who reigns
over the TTowssa States, holding the provinces
which we have described in a kind of subjec-
tion as tributaries. His empire extends to
Songhay on the west, and Bornu on the east.
He isa liberal man, not haunted with the
ghost of Mahometan bigotry or asceticism.
At the same time he wants energy of char-
acter, and is only a nominal warrior, Tis
dominions are, therefore, held with a feeble
hand, and the border country is in a state of
much insecurity and distraction. This is
specially the case on the western side, where
the stern followers of Othman wield a firm
sway, and are anxious to extend the reforms
(so called) of a stern Islamism. Aliyu, on
the other hand, is content with the present
state of things, and has no zeal for prozelyt-
ism ; as is evident from his allowing a pagan
people to skirt his castern frontier. We
shall glance at these Bedce when we come
to them in our journey. Aliyu, on hearing
of Dr. Barth’s arrival, sent him a supply of
provisions, consisting of an ox, four fat sheep,
and two largo sacks of rice, each containing
about two hundredweight; intimating his desire
to see him immediately. He was found
sitting. on a raised platform under e tree in
front. of his dwelling. He received the tray
eller with great’ cordiality, shaking hands
with him, and begging him to sit down in
front.of him. He said that he had heard of
ai hig movements, had received his letter
sent through the Sultan of Agades, and enter-
ed heartily into the views of his mission ; so
he was ‘ready to form a commercial treaty
with the Queen of England, and engage to
protect British merchants and_ travellers.

Kelowi; but the Tawarek and other Arab]

‘ tribies infest the'nicighborhood) ="
Here'and: there, if youkep’ the “proper

route, you will meet with a weit >-"~

oven a small town: Sometimes . y

"-al:savozal diys without findine »

aue his’
woulve thief, though : wlY Nob very
ferocious. It has searec., any mane, and
differs in this respect from the lion of central
Africa, whose mance is large and beautifal.
These wild beasts hunt in companies of foar
and five, and will not hesitate to steal a
camel. ,

The people of the desert dwell in small
villages of huts, built of mats attached to
stalks of corn or to young trees, and roofed
with branches covered with hides. They
subsist chiefly by cattle breeding, hunting,
stealing, and convoying caravans, ‘Their
manners are very free, aud the morals of both
sexes are described as extremely loose.

The naturalist could find some objects of
interest in the desert. There is a plant,
called in Howssa “kumkuminia,”’ a species
of cuphorbia, which grows to the height of
nearly two feet. It is very poisonous, and
is used to anoint the tips of arrows. ‘Then
there is the ‘‘aido,”’ a grass covered with
large and strong prickles, very distressing to
naked feet. ne part of the country is
nearly covered with the slseleplas gigantea,
on the leaves of which the cattle feed. It
has a milky juice Cused by pagans to foment
their “‘giya,’’) which spots clothes, and even
injures the hair of horses. Acacias, dwarf
laurels, and other stunted plants grow in the
more fertile places.

Now suppose that we could be transported
across this desert reyion, which we gladly
leave to its present vecupants, and that we
could be set down in Awades itself. This
once far-famed city deserves a little notice,
Tt used to be surrounded with. a wall, but
this has disappeared from one side, and what
remains is in a dilapidated state. The south-
ern part of the town is almost entirely de-
sorted, and many ruined houses are found in
every strect. In the zenith of its prosperity,
Agades had a cireuit of about three miles and
a half, and probably contained a population
of fifty thousand souls. Its greatest decline
took place at the close of last century,
when the conquests of the ‘Tawareks
destroyed its prineipal markets; and a tide
of emigration set in for Towssa. Dr, Barth
estimates the present number of inhabited
houses tg be six or seven hundred, and the
inhabitants to be about seven thousand. A
large portion of the male population are al-
ways from home, on mercantile expeditions
of their own, or in conveying caravans, s0
that the armed force of the place at any one
time seldom musters more than six hundred.

More than fifty houses are raised to two
stories, or rather have a garret planted on
their flat roofs. ‘Ihe better sort have a
vestibule, with inner apartments, and a
spacious court-yard, in which is an enormous
bedstead. Purtle-doves, goats, and young
ostriches may be found running about here,
and plenty of children. In the back court
are soveral apartments for the wonen. ‘The
great bedstead is a piece of furniture peculiar
to the Songhay tribes. In Agades, it is like a
small house built of strong boards, and fur.
nished with a canopy of mats. ‘The dwellings
require to be spacious, as they sometimes con-
tain a little clan of people.

Dr. Barth was introduced to the sul-
tan, who saluted the traveller’ and imme-:
diately entered into a conversation about’

PONT eyyTeey

the town; so that he w:
reserved, and even tos batt:
than he wished, There several marke
in Agades. That for If ; stock contained a
number of camels. The vegetable market is
not so well supplied, th — stock: being small,
except of cucumbers, ard Molukhia ( Cor-
chorus olitorious,) ‘Tle butcher’s market
has a sufficient quantity of meat; and num-
bers of large vultures are sitting on the
rumed walls, ready to + 3ize upon any kind
of offal that may be let all.

In another market o bazaar, held in a
kind of hall supported )y stems of the doom-
tree, women sell a va’ sty of ornamental and
other articles ; such & ‘necklaces and beads,
sandals, small boxes of leather and tin, and
saddles. ‘The leather: - boxes or purses are
very neatly made, ofi; ferent colors and a
variety of sizes. ‘Th sandals, also, are very
neat, and are highly .. ized throughout the
country, ‘The artisars in leather-vork are
almost entirely womer, who live together in a,
quarter of the town, vhich used to be sepa-
rated from the rest bi a gate. Though the
inhabitants are Mosems, and are far from
bearing good will to infidels, Christians, or
Jews; yot they dc not’ deny themselves
in their favorite <nusements of dancing
and music. The pastimes, with gossip-
ing oceupy, the leisue time of the evening,

‘and are often protraced to a late hour of the

night. A spectator of one of their moonlight
balls represents the -oung men as dancing
in pairs, placed oppcite to eachother, stamp-
ing with the foot, arl whirling round in. cir-
cles; the performan-e mecting with tho ap-
plause of numerou admirers, who signify
their approbation by loud clapping of hands.
Besides the usual ayers on instruments,
one musician attractel attention, by perform-
ing a solo on a sort f guitar, accompanying
it with an extempora cous song.

There is a crowd cf persons assembled in
the vestibule of a house detached from others,
and furnished with | verandah. It is the
residence of the cadi j: judge, who is listen-
ing to an interesting Awsuit. A stolen camel
has been traced to thi possession of a towns-
man, who proves that 10 bonght it of a man
who swore it was his pwn property. ‘The
complainant, who lost he camel, wishes to
recover its price from tfe defendant, who hud
bought and sold it ag\in under suspicious
circumstances. After searing the evidence
adduced on both sides, {he judge decides in
favor of tho defendant. u

The vast region whicli lies between Tripo-
li and the heart:of Africa, forming, the cast-
ern skirt of the Sahara, las been crossed by
several enterprising travéllers. But it. is
not, thereford, eithor easy or secure. There
ure two principal caravan routes, through it,
the more westerly one passing near «A gades,
and the easterly passing through Bilma. By
either of these,’ the journey is fraught ‘with
many hardships and: dangers. High niown
tains of barren rocks and sand liave: to--be
surmounted, ‘and many intricate defiles to be
passed, vast plains must be crosseil, of | the
dreariest description, with only ‘here

fooistey “s+him. dead.” This. deci
mar * witch, the crowingc

4

ceeeey anti 2aipuar wu wu by

aa, describe some parts of their desert
journey as having been very toilsome and
distressing. The caravan lost’ many camels
through fatigue ; and they often passed nu-
merous skeletons of unhappy persons, chiefly

way to ‘Tripoli. Near one well they counted
more than a hundred, some of which had the
skin still attached to the bones. During a
day’s journey of twenty-six miles, they passed
107 of these skeletons. No wonder! ‘The
poor slaves are marched with chains round
their legs and necks, with a scanty supply of
provision, and with no warm clothing. Their
privations, therefore, must be great; for the
traveller says, “it Was the ‘ciglth day since
our caraels had ‘tasted water,~—-and at ‘night
it blew a hurricane.” Again he writes,
“During the last two days, we had passed
‘on an average from:sixty to eighty or nincty
skeletons each day; but the numbers that
lay about the wells at El Hammar were
countless ; those of two women, whose per-
feet and regular teeth bespoke them young,
were particularly shocking. ‘Their arms still
remained clasped round each other, as they
had expired ; although the flesh had long
since perished, by being exposed to the burn-
ing rays of tho sun, and the blackened bones
only were left. The nails of the fingers, and
some of the sinews of the hand, also remain-
ed and part of the tongue’ of one of them
still appeared through the teeth, We had
now passed six days of desert, without the
slightest appearance of vegetation, and a lit-
tle branch of the sway (Capparis sodada)
was brought me here, as 2 comfort and a cu-
riosity. On the following day we had alter-.
nately plains of sand and loose gravel, and
had a distant view of some hills to the west.
While T was dozing upon my horse about:
noon, overcome hy the Went of the sun, which’
at that time of the day always shone with
great power; I was’ suddenly awakened by
a erashing under his feet, which startled me
excessively.” It was treading upon skulls.
Wo shall not envy the Arabs their desert
home.

Sometimes couriers are sent from- Bornu
to Moorauk ; but only the Tibbu will under-
take this arduous service. ‘Tio are always
sent ; for the chances aro against both of them

slaves, who had died of exhaustion on their,

_ desert.

.vks ‘help “themselves to
ys of the Tibbu,” without
to pay for it, as they. haye
: for buying’ any ‘goods

to see the wild Arabs per-

_ ~ operation ona sick , man ?
tere is a specimen. A merchant of Tripoli,
travelling in the caravan, has been suffering
on the road from an enlarged spleen. He
is advised to undergo the operation of burn-
ing with a red-hot ‘ifdn; which the Arabs
think an unfailing remédy for most internal
disorders. THe consonts. - They lay him
down on his back in the sand, whero five or
six men hold him steady. ‘he rude surgeons
commence their work by burning him in
thre@places under the ribs of the left side ;
each wound being of the size of a sixpence.
Whilst the iron is again heating, a number of
thumbs are pressed into his side, to know if
he feels pains ; and their rough pressure is
So great, that the sick man declares he feels
pain all over. ‘The operators then make four
more brands near the former ones ; then tum
ing him over, they make three larger near his
back bone. Finally, an old Arab, who has
been feeling his throat, declares that -he _re-
quires a large burn near the collar bone.
The patient submits to this savage’ treatnient
with admirable patience, and getting up,
drinks a large‘draught of water, and remounts.
his camel for the journey. Weshould think
that this mangling must cither end or mend
the sufferer.

Wild and lawless are these children of the
The escortof a carayan think them-
selves privileged to lay hold of any thing or
any body which comes in their way, and to
help themselves to whatever they need.
When any of the camels die of fatigue, they
try to replace them without money. When
they are hungry or wish fora little flesh, woe
to the shepherd who erosses their track, or in
fear has fled at their approach. ‘“What, not
stay to soll their sheep, the rogues! We'll
take them now without payment” (asif they
would ever have paid for them, except in
blows!) So a dozen of the escort start off
in the direction of the sheep-marks, and
scouring the valleys at length discover the.
hapless fugitives. There'are about twenty
persons, including men, women, and chidren,

be

WAL ESA

‘ reeenatives- ant: anteceion ::- RY vee,
tenuated spectre,” perbaps ‘a crumb

and: athirst:to. famine—when all humanity
has forgotten the dying tenant of a decaying
house—Divine mercy remembers the mourn-
er, and a shower of manna falls for lips that

cal promises, heard first in health, but then
unheeded, come whispering to. the couch of
sickness ; it is felt that a pitying God watches
what all mankind have forsaken ; .the tender
compassion of Jesus is recalled; and relied

Charlotte Bronté,
’ Venpat Vicrs.— Indulgence in. verbal

conduct. Let any one of you come to talk
about any mean or‘vile piictice with a fa-
miliar tone, and -do you ‘sixpposé, when the
opportunity occurs for committing the mean
or vile act, he will be as strong against, it as

thing that men of correct lives talk themsél

Bad language easily runs into bad deeds.
Select any iniquity you please ; suffer your-
‘self to converse in its dialect, to use its slang,
to speak in the character of one who ap-
proves or relishes it, and I need not tell you
how soon your moral sense will lower down
its level.. Becoming intimate with: it, you
lose your horror of it. This obvious princi-
ple, of itself, furnishes a reason for watching
the tongue.—F’. D. Huntington, DD.

Cautious Mex.—Some use words as rifle-
men do bullets. They are little. The. few
words used go right to the mark: ‘They let
you talk, and guide with your eye and face,
till what you say can be answered in a word
or two, and then they launch.out'a sentence
and pierce the matter ‘to. the uick, and are
done. You never know where, you are +"
them. Your conversation: falls int-,
minds as rivers into deep chasip. ac

~ . . h ott, id
lost from sight by its depth 0. Sods

wi ; i Ww

They ill sometimes sure a sh

ig ‘ -shot, and
that go right to the .! ea gun-shot,

they are silent ac8 if reloading. _

—The }itftations and minor musertes
of life cny de met with patience and phi
lose: “They can’t be “put down” like

having ten camels to‘convey their tents and-#
goods, with about two hundred head of ee mem
Their retreat is intercepted by some the
free-booters, whilst the others Aqyrgard,
and ina moment the eaptuteade, The
most rapid plunder that

near
eel i Wcould have con- Y
ived quickly er

returning safe. They are ‘mounted on the
finest maheries (or swift dromedaries) ; and

\ .. WS
were instantly -amenced. The camels
every part “ought to the ground, and

carry. with them, a hag of parched corn, one
or; two, sking cof ‘water, a, brass , basin and a

dried in the sun.
the'tail‘ of the maheri ‘to” edtch the. yor
which falls, that it my serve © dung
night. ‘The -journer occupy’ jor fuel at
lays, travelling at oests,eg about forty
tul that such cr arier’ wad: Tt is wonder-
The Arab ach, ean be -found.

exciting.c anowledge that it is.a most
about te _s astance when two caravans are
ther, #6et each other in the desert; *

1, have songs to commemorate sue:

* As-soon as a-dark ‘object appear

there a spot of yerdure ; whilst lawlee” nd { tance, the stern qnéstion co
‘hostile to each other and bent o-, tribes, | hourt; Is it a ,friond +
hover around, waiting for ar 4, ‘plunder; | travellers like qur-”
becoming rich at another’, opportunity éf | of plunderers”

» oxpense/. During | the samo"

wooden bowl, a little. meat cut in strips and | ppe ;
“A bags suspended ur” could do nothing for them beyonr
their lives.”
seemed ashamed of the
was moved by the tears
seized the favors!

that the Aral

and have

Thir

womer vi their load rifled. The poor
stri-and girls lifted up their hands to me,
das they were to the skin; bv

The chief soon ¢?

them is to pay as little attention
yossible, and not to double t
fretting over them. As ‘

:
surrection, nor expelled like a bad chur:
ber. ° The best that can bo ore

a

@ says—we de

where—
“For ¢
al

‘i
thrown-once ‘a ‘year ;° but ‘when abungered |

earthly nutriment is to pass no more. Bibli: |

on ; the fading eye, gazing beyond time, sces :
a_home,-a friend, .a refuge in eternity:— .

vice soon: encourages corresponding vices in ,

before? It is-by no means an unknown

into crime, into sensuality, into perdition.”

Toten te teat ay

:

Naas e A CORE NAS AA YUNA REE

sain OE ee Titel

forced march against the rebels, 2200 strong,
in Clinton and Henry counties, Mo; where-
4 upon tho latter beat a precipitate retreat
% towards Roso Hill, Johnson county ; leaving
& behind, their arms, baggage, munitions, pa-

; Pope, who still continued in pursuit of the

’ where they scattered in all directions, the

eC an ey

Ss reread saeco

PAM ale ane te et

haa AMAA LA RE LI ECT RENO NE AT OTOL RINE EN OTA EE

omy resem eaeyt

een

savnemantseumenemarmenes J

“BOSTON: THURSDAY, JAN. 21862,

Cuaxer or Numners, &e.—In order to
avoid all confusion, and for other: reasons,

wo have adopted a new and simpler style of

addresses, dates and numbers, with the open-
‘ing of the year. Dropping the “New Se.
ries” and “Volume” numbers, wo now adopt
two styles—tho first, showing the number
issued from tho commencement of the year ;
and tho othor, the number issue” since tho es-
tablishment of the paper. , :

this system, but as it is wrong to thus post-
date, wo now drop it. The paper will be
printed im Boston on Wednesday afternoons,
and published on Thursday mornings. It will
be for sale at tho Haytian Bureaux—in Bos-
ton and New York, on Thursdays; and at
Windsor, C. W., on Fridays or Saturdays.
Mr. Whito, No. 717 Lombard street, is the
solo Agent for Philadelphia. Price at the
Eastern offices, three cents a copy ; at Wind-
sor five ‘cents; but, if delivered hy carrier,
in Boston, New York, or Philadelphia,
four cents a copy. All letters, advertise.
ments and subscriptions should be address.
ed to Boston; tothe Publisher (if on busi-
ness;) and, (if for publication,) to the Adi-
tors of The Pine and Palm,
“The Africans at Ilome” will be con-
cluded in Whole Number 135; while
“ The History of the Revolutions of Hayti”
Will run through twenty or more numbers
still. ‘This latter volume increases in interest
as it proceeds. Keep your files of it.

in distant places. Not to ihaxe too many
changes at once, wo have hitherto kept up

‘The London papers appear as full of
vain conjectures and idle surmiscs relative to
the San Jacinto affair, as papers on this side
of tho Atlantic ; and tho former havo no bet-
ter foundation whereupon to base their decla-
rations than the latter. In other words, both
have been wrapped in an Egyptian darkness,
as to Governmental views, or contemplated
intentions. Much of the uneasiness that has
pervaded the community, is justly attributa-
ble to tho feverish excitement created, or age
gravated hy this thoughtless course of the
Press, in its assumption of being over-wise ;
and much is chargeable to the interested self-

ishness of stock-jobbers and others, who are

endeavoring “to turn a penny” by erating a
business confusion. Some of the papers have
declared that Mason and Slidell have been
hung—that aman-of-war has started, or soon
will be sent to carry Lord Lyons home—that
the British Ministry will declare war imme-
diately, without asking or awaiting explana-
tions—that the British Government has de-

The paper used to ke “day,
although it was always pr “_{manded an apology, and granted our Coy:
day—a system usual with y ernment twentyJour hours within which to
journals, as it is supposed to , _ sale | make it. In fact, they teem with thousands

of as idle and incredible stories.

We rejoice at knowing that an end is about
being put to this exciting and profitless gos
sip.
On Saturday, intelligence was received
from Washington, that Government had yield-
ed to the demands of England, and Mason
and Slidell would be given up. However
mortifying this may be te our pride, with
howsoever little propricty or consistency Eng-
land can make such a demand, bearing in
mind the extreme position by her taken, and
persistently maintained, through a long term
of years, in somewhat similar cases, her own
self-interest and selfishness heing uppermost,
we think under existing circumstances, the
decision arrived at hy our Government is the
wisest and most politic. If the principle in-
volved is recognized and honestly abided hy,
in the future, on the part of Great Britain,
civilized nations in general will have cause
for gratulation at the recent occurrences,
which may lead or require her, xalens rolens,
to sanction the doctrine in regard to neutral
rights, long advocated and contended for by

When itis printed we will begin an Histori-
eal Novel, in which the thrilling scenes of

this country, and more recently by France.

Haytian history are depicted with vivid pow-
er by one of the most distinguished writers
of our times. As already stated, the entire
fourth page will be devoted to the Tlaytian
Movement and to the history, news, and re-
sources of Hayti ; and threo inside columns
will be given up to advertisements—“just so
much and nothing moro.” Every effort will
be made to increase the interest, power and
saaracter df tho paper, Wo rely on our

m ts : :
The. National Intelligencer, in commenting

aoe . °
on the decision arrived at, says :—

“Whatever may he the disappointment, if
any, at the result to which the administration
has come in settling a question constitution
ally devolved upon the executive branch of
the government, we are sure all will applaud
the firmness, the sincerity in which’ the ad-

ministration, resisting a natural tendency
impressed by the concerted drift of public
Opinion in our own country, has rese *

do what it believes to be rie"

feiends to do their utmost ta promote its cir-

Vartan

a)
sme time previously.
Gen. Pope, on the 18th ult., made a

pers, &e., all of which were seized by Gen.
enemy, as far a8 Johnson, Bates county,

main portion flecing south. Gen. Pope
again pushed on to within 15 miles of Osce-
ola, (whero Price has 8000 troops,) and
captured 150 rebels, with all their baggage,
stores, &ce. Additional squads taken, aug-
mented the number of prisoners to 300. *

On the evening of the 18th ult., another
portion of Gen. Pope’s force, under the com-
mand of Col. Davis, surprised a second rebel
camp, near Milford, Mo., and took the whole,
1500 strong, prisoners; among them were
one Licut-Colonel, two Colonels, and 17 Cap
tains ; at the same time were captured, 1000
stand of arms, 1000 horses, 65 wagons, and
a large quantity of baggage, tents, and sup-
plics. The Unionists lost two killed and
eight wounded; the rebel loss was not ascer-
tained.

Near Glasgow, Mo., two tons of gunpow-
der have been secured, which were found
cuchéd (or buried) on Claib. Jackson’s farm.
By later Missouri intelligence, the general
summing up of our recent successes, shows
as follows; viz: the capture of 2500 rebels,
ji@luding 70 commissioned officcrs; 1200
horses 224 mules ; 1100 stand of arms ; 100
1° tons of gunpowder, and a_ vast
equipage and commissary
qn our side, in killed

Negroes ;

amount of camp “4

stores. The entire loss
and wounded, is stated at 4.9

On the 20th ult., a brisk f1bt took place

near Drainsville, in the vicinity of \/*Sbins-

ton, between the rebels, consisting of 1”

*monts, with a batttery of artillery, and a

varty under Gen. Ord, consisting of

*a Ist regiment of Pennsylva-

‘on’s battery of four guns.

‘our and a half, the

“n of Fairfax

snd har-

oat

mises 3 and it enesle

tne principles Ul pou 1
transaction.”

“The Jaw of nations as °

preted by our Governmer

new sanction, though at th-

of some national sensibilities

proportionate activity by the tempouuy -..
acerbations of our civil feuds.
let us remember, are but fora day.
law of nations is for all time.”’

The latter,
The

We have carefully perused the correspon-
dence between the United States and British
Governments, growing out of Capt. Wilkes’s
procedure in the Mason Slidell capture. The
Secretary of State has argued the case. aglmi-
rably, perhaps justly, for Great Britain ;
stating, however, that the doctrine advocated
ig sound American doctrine, which has heen
maintained and contended for by the United
States, for more than half a century. We
had supposed that some great principle, which
England, heretofore, has not acknowledged,
was now about being recognized, and firmly
established.

But, if we read aright, in this, we are mis-
taken, and the decision arrived at does little
more than dispose of this isolated case ; the
great question, so long pending, relative to
the nature and extent of neutral rights in
peace as well as in war, still remaining un-
settled unless by implication. Mr. Seward
treats the question under five heads ; four of
which he determines in our favor, and the
fifth against us, thereby vitiating the whole
prior proceedings, and rendering it obligatory
upon us to return the captured persons.
Ile decides that the persons and dispatches
were contraband ;—that Captain Wilkes
might lawfully stop and search the Trent ;—
that he did lawfully, and properly do so ;—
that finding“t¢ contraband persons on board,
he had a right to capture them ; dué that he
did not exercise the right to capture in the
manner allowed and recognized by the law’
o. nations, Instead cf taking out the con-1

Ag, he should have carried or sent the
trabanu . eye
vessel and contents into port for adjudication.

see from the decision is, if

The fair infere «a:

oe ww: * — smmoded, or inflicted an

Capt. Wilkes had ince. eyes
more individuals,

injury upon a hundred or - .4 jyoneht in
and had taken possession of au. pon less
the rent and her cargo, there had u. yg

‘se, if not, indecd, a removal of all ,.

* complaint against him.

bstantially right, he, partly
srred in mode, and there-
‘he advantage that
‘ to us from

OTS, PRESTR TARY UN cab Uae ea Meccan aed

sons, it would be the right and duty of this
Government to detain them.”

Tf England, 23 many, believe, is desirous
of a rupture with us, is determined to make
or find a casus belli, she will not be satisticd;
but if, as we trust, she aims to maintain
peaceful relations with us, the “note” will
prove acceptable and satisfactory. In re-
gard to this, we shall not be kept long in
doubt. §

New Mexico.—On the 8d ult., Mr.
Watts, delegate to Congress from New Mex-
ico, introduced a bill into the House of Rep-
resentatives, providing for the examination of
claims arising from Indian depredations in
that ‘Territory. We trust that all such

Wastox Destruction or Prorerty.—
‘The organ of destructiveness must be enor-
mously developed, or in an inordinately ex-
citéd state, among the Missouri rebels by
recent accounts from that troubled regions,
Tho Northern Missouri Railroad, or the
section between Woarrentown and Tudson,
has been rendered completely useless ; the
track has been torn up, rails broken and bent,
the ti. ‘oridges, and station houses burned ;
culverts demolished ; cars destroyed: the
demons of destruction seem to have had full
sway., and to have availed of their power to
lay waste, in every possible way, all things
pos isible.

As there is seldom an evil without some

claims as may be presented will be thoroughly }
examined and rigidly scrutinized. ‘There i-s
a great deal of iniquity connected with thins
class of claims ; a great deal of imposit! on
! and fraud practised by the holders of tl sem.

If one half what we hear be true, th ¢ New

Mexican claims, instead of presentir 1g an eX"

ception to, exhibits a glaring ine tance of,
; the truth of what is above stated. — Wo hope
the Territorial oflicials will pro’ ye themselves
clear of all complicity with av .y of the actors,
or yerticipation in any of :
themselves.

the transactions

' ys . ‘ U .

We see that Gov. Con nelly, who was, at
ol . ‘, . . .

ic time, thought to be 8 seessionally inlined,
and was most assuredly, Pro-Slavery in his
proclivities, intends e¢- sereising his intluence
to induee the Legislat ve of New Mexico to
repeal its slave code.

This may be from an
honest conviction of its

injustice ; but as ho
was one of the prime m overs in eetting it en-
ueted, and as his form gy nomination to the
office he oceupics was, at © the special session
of Congress, rejected by
want of confidence in the r
nomination, (through del
fluence with the Preside
the Senate for confirma’
jection, it is net wm

* the Senate from

aan, and as his re-

egate Watts’s in-
sut,) is pending in
‘ion or a second re-
matural to apprehend
that he may bestimuk — te. adopt his present
course for purely selfi
Among the oldest
reputable residents
Watrons ; he has ,

sh purposes.

, best known, and most
of that Territory, is 8. B.
“pe taken a great interest

_ of that region, and the sue-

being of its inhabitants; for
quite, a generation he has been
er of passing events, has taken

in the prosperity

cess and well-

nearly, if not -

a close observ:
onzance .

cognizance of public men and measures, has

narrowly watched the doings of political

leaders, ar” st the intrigues Of partisan wire-
pulle-
ly

483 and he has at all times unhesitating-
and openly deprecated whatever or who-
in his opinion, was injurious to the
veal. Ina latte» fram him. hearing
relay’s *
fe

“compensating good, we are glad to find that

these outrages, and similar apprehended ones,
have aroused Gen. Halleck to institute more
stringent measures against lawless depreda-
tors. Me hasissued an ordor to the effect that
bridge-burners, and railroad and telegraph
destroyers, if caught, will be shot immediate-
ly; any one charged with these crimes will
be tried, and if pronounced guilty, be exe-
cuted ; the commanding officer of the post
nearest to the place where the damage isdono,
will cause tho necessary repairs to be made,
employing for the purpose the property and
slaves of the neighboring Sccessionists, and
the Scecessionists themselves, if need be;
pretended Unionists withholding information
of the acts or actors, will bo deemed aiders
and abettors, and proceeded against accord-
ingly ; towns and counties within which the
destruction takes place, will be held respon-
sible therefor, woless satisfactory proof be
adduced that the people were too weak to
successfully resist the action of the trespassers.

This order, if promptly and faithfully en-
foreed, will goon work a reformation in that
section which has long been urgently needed,
and which can never be accomplished by any
umount of “honied words and sugared
phrases.” Of the jtruth of this, there can be
no diflerence of opinion, among those at all
conversant with thy character and general con-
duet of the class Vio glory in the name of

“Border Ruflians,’”

is ,

——'The N. Y. Herald is out again in tes
usual Christian spirjt, (for it has much to
say of late, in a mock-pious strain,) against
Gen. Phelps and Wendell Phillips, having
rested for the space of twenty-four hours since

COLORED TOWNSHIP AT BUXTON, 6. W,

LETTERS AND ESSAYS.

BY WM. J. WATKINS.
Ayy Arnon, Mich, Dee. 18, 1861.

Tt is a favorite dogma of.slaveholders and
their eraven apologists, that ‘negroes can’t
take care of themselves.” ‘Their law, their
science, their ethics, their theology, and their
religion, are thoroughly impregnated with the
virus of this palpable absurdity. ‘The negro,
they tell us, thrives best in servitude, his nor-
mal condition. fe must have a master, 2
guardian—some one to look after him. It
is distinctly affirmed that he does not possess
those qualities which are a size qua non to
the development of the endire man. It is
said that he is deficient in judgment, in fore-
thought, in the ability to plan and to exe-
cute, and that, left to himself, thrown uppn
his own resources and responsibilities, he will,
sooner or later, relapse into barbarism.

Our imaligners roll these premises as a
sweet morsel under their yeracious(?) tongues,
and jump with all the dexterity of the most
accomplished acrobat, to the conclusion that
those who insist upon having us treated, in
all respects, as men, are practising a philoso-
phy in direct hostility to the Divine economy,
and forcing us into an uncongenial element,
one for which we have no natural adaptation,
and in which we must inevitably wither, droop,
and die.

But the facts, the facts! What are the
facts? For facts, stubborn and immutable,
are worth more than theories, unless the latter
are supported by the former.

It is safe to affirm that the human race is
a unit—that man is the same in all ages.

He may differ in certain phenomenal aspects,
under the modifying play of certain circum-
stances; but in no respect are the laws of
his being altered or amulled. One speci-
men of a fully developed negro, a pure ne-
gro, (none of your half-and-half arrange-
ments, ) is suflicient to prove the title of the
whole race to equal rights as men. It will
not do to argue that such a negro is an ex-
ception, and proves nothing. The most learn-
ed monkey cannot make a mathematician,
nor can the wisest and most wonderful ele-
phant be taught to build a steamboat, or to
command an army. No such exceptions can
be found among the race, for the simple
reason that they do not, and cannot, exist.
But we have it in our power to ‘proudly
point out instances among negroes, as de-
monstrations of the absurdity of the dogma of
our inherent inferiority, and our inability to
take care of ourselves, Whatever the white
man has done, the black man has done.
Whatever the white man can do, the black
man can do. We have among us farmers
and philosophers, lawyers and linguists, poets

the triumphant s“ccess of the latter, and its
own complete discomfiture thereby. ‘The
‘Abolitionists,”. who, we have been re
eily told, dare clo anything to fr
designs, and accomplish # °
suddenly become ¢

to endorse, wit 1 helps’s
au. Hap

{and preachers, musicians and mathematicians.
We have orators, editors, physicians, mer-
chants, all sorts of mechanics ; and, as though
to leave no doubt of the fact of our identity
with our Anglo-Saxon brethren, we have
even black slaveholders among us—yes, the

jreal “critter”? himself; the same number of
heads, and the same number of horns! We
work in coal, wood, iron, gold, brass, silver,
and steel. We cat the same kind of food,

‘and we.drink the same kind of drink. Our

vices, as well as our virtues, prove: who we

hot we c.e and what we ought to he.
uatt a “scrimmage” with an Irish-
thought that, as I was a “nagur.”

sa etal

4 tinnity 1 ‘No-day they hold themselves up as

young men have been prepared as teachers,
and as such, are actively employed in differ-
ent parts of the Province. ‘There is also a
Sabbath School, attended by ninety pupils.
The settlement contains 1,000 inhabitants,
active and intelligent, sober-and industrious.
We understand, from reliable authority, that
it has been a rule in this settlement, that no
clothing nor provisions of any kind should be
received. Although many landed here,
stripped of every thing but life and health,
they were only placed in a way to support
themselves, and toll that their own right arm}.
must do the rest. The health and morals of
the settlers are good ; there has been no case
of crime during the last year. Nothing that
intoxicates is made or sold in the settlement,
and not a drunken man has been seen in the
settlement during nino years. The various
trades are liberally represented among them.
They have also several mills, factories, ete.

I lectured to these people in their church,
apparently much to their edification. I never
addressed an audience with whom I was more
delighted.

Now, these persons have had more to contend
against, both in the States and in the Canadas,
than any community of white men to be found
on God's green earth, When Mr. King was
negotiating for the lands for their settlement,
the whites in the neighborhood became horti-
bly afraid. The “abomination of desolation”
was coming. ‘They raved and swore, and
wrote threatening letters. But the negroes
came, and conquered. ‘To-day, I point thom
out to the libellers of our oppressed people,
as evidence of the equality of the race.
When in the cotton fields, the rice fields and
sugar plantations of our Barbary States, they
loomed up in the world’s horizon, a huge,
grim, black monument of the brutality and
barbarism of American civilization, and the
infidelity and atheism of American Chris-

Nature’s noblemen; and as the wilderness
resounds with their well-directed blows, and
the fire-side sparkles with the cheerful smiles
of the’r wives and little ones, they tella
simple, truthful story of their rights, which
will be heard, at this critical hour, above the
din of contending armies. ‘Can’t take care
of themselves !”’

Teannot close this hasty sketch without
returning my thanks to Rev. Wm. King,
Mr. George Hatter, and Mr. Thomas String-
er, for many manifestations of kindness. In
a few days I shall again grasp them by the
hand.

COLORED AMERIOAN PATRIOTISM.

“The Loyalty and Devotion ot Colored
Americans in the Revolution and War of
1812,” is the title‘of a tract of 24 "pages, just

issued by R. F'. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery Rooms | &

221 Washington strect, Boston. With the
permission of the publisher, we republish it.
I a)
PATRIOTISM OF COLORED AMERICANS.
Ata Mass Convention of the colored cits
izens of Ohio, held at Cleveland, Sept. 9th,
1852, the orator of the occasion, William H.
Day, Esq., in the course of his address, said :
“© Of the services and sufferings of the
colored soldiers of the Revolution,’ says one
writer, ‘no attempt “has, to our knowledge,
heen made.to preserve a record.’” This is
“Andrue ‘Their history is not written.
vil watered with their blood;

> It rests with their boues

cause -they would not be slaves.
whom liberty has cost nothing, do not know
how to prize it.

“Then liberty meant something. Then lib-

erty, independence, freedom, were in every
min’s mouth.
which they rallied, and under which the

foughtand bled. They were the words whic

‘encouraged and cheered them through their
hungor, and nakedness, and fatigue, in cold
and in heat.

They were the sounds at

; ‘The word slavery then filled
their hearts with horror. ‘They fought: be-
Those

“ IT served in the Revolution, in General

Washington’s army, three years under one
enlistment.
balls, like hail, were flying all around ‘me.
‘The man standing next to me was shot by

I have stood in -battle -where

my side—his blood spouted upon my clothes,
which I wore for weeks. My nearest blood,
except that which runs in my veins, was shed
for liberty. My orily brother was shot dead
instantly in the Revolution. Liberty is dear
to my heart; I cannot endure the thought
that my countrymen should be slaves.

When stationed in the State of Rhode
Island, the regiment te which I belonged -
was once ordered to what was called a flank-~
ing position,—that is, upon a place which
the encmy must pass in order to come round
in our rear, to drive us from the fort. This
pass was every thing, both to them and to
us; of course, it wasa post of imminent
danger. ‘They attacked us with great fury,
but were repulsed. They reinforeed, and
attacked us again, with more vigor and de-
termination, and again were repulsed.
Againthey reinforced, and attacked us the
third time, with the most desperate courage
and resolution, but.a third time were re-
pulsed. ‘The contest was fearful. Our po-
sition was hotly disputed and as hotly main-
tained.

“ But [ have another object in view in
stating these facts. 1 would not be trumnpet-
ing my own acts ; the only reason why I
have named myself in connection with this
transaction is to show that I know whereof
I affirm. There was a black regiment in
the same situation. Yes, a regiment of ne-
groes, fighting for our liberty and indepen-
denec,—not awhite man among then but
the officers, —stationed in this same dangerous
and responsible position. Had they been
unfaithfel, or given way before the enemy,
all would have been lost. Three times in
succession were they attacked, with most
desperate valor and fury, by well disciplined
and veteran troops, and three times did they
successfully repel the assault, and thus pre-
serve ourarmy from capture. They fought
though the war. They were brave, hardy
troops. They helped to gain our liberty and
independence.

‘©Now, the war is over, our freedom is
ained—whatis to be done with these colored
soldiers, who have shed their best blood in its
defence? Must they he sent off out of the
country, because they are black? or must
they be sent back into slavery, now they
have risked their lives and shed their blood
to secure the freedom of their masters? I
ask, what became of these noble colored
soldiers? Many of. them, I fear, were ta-
ken back to the South, and doomed-to the
fetter and the chain.

“ And why is it, that the colored inhabi-
tants of our nation, born in this country,
and entitled to all the rights of freemen, are
held inslavery?» Why, but because they are
black? ‘T have often thought that, should
God see fit, by a_miracle, to change their

?} color’ sta.

and give their fea-
~ of tha

Waltay wey Le
hands, and considerable anxiety is felt as
the way they will play it. ‘They have worked
the people up to Secession heat by a load of
grievances, of which the General Government
must “bear the censure, and thus they are
prepared to avail themselves of any emer-
gency that may suddenly arise, and turn it
to their own advantage. A. few months
since, the Mexican people were Joyal toa
man, and the Secession feeling was confined
toa few heartless politicians ; but now dis-
satisfaction and distrust are spreading fay
and wide, and conrplaints loud and deep are
heard on every side.

The end of all this is shrouded in dark-
ness; Lut those who tow these people
tremble for the result, when they look on
what is passing around them, and judge by
the past what the future may bring forth.”

aasee -

We are constantly being told, (and
thereby eajoled,) by one official after anoth-
er, week following week, that this is to be a
short war. So in substance, if not actual
phraseology, has said the Secretary of War,
the Scerctary of State, the recognized Com-
mander-in-ehief, and the President himself.
‘One has confidently declared that the troops
would be enabled to jom in the Christmas
gambols at home ; another, that they would
there participate in the joyous grectings of
the incoming year; another that the end
would certainly be prior to the rigors of win-
ter setting in. It has been oracularly an-
nounced, that astounding events would be
made manifest within a given time, already
past, said events still remaining undeveloped;
and it has also been in a seer-like manner
predicted, that the rebellion would be crushed
out utterly and forever, in the space of so
many designated days. ‘The present con-
dition and aspect of affairs leads us in the
language of other times to give the warning
ery, “Beware of false prophets.”
Notwithstanding all the flattering predic-
tions, recont advices from Washington state
that an order has been issued from the Ord-
nance Department to the largest three can-
non foundries in the country, to manufac-
ture to their utmost capacity, 10-inch colum-
“iads, for the next welve months. Contracts
v. Iso just been made for immense quan-
have w. — -ms, shot; shell, &e. Wo thus
tities of tu» nrospeu, ahead !
have a glorious , :

——-¢:

merely
Me
——-Mr. Stevens, (.
sylvania,) in the course of & is sadly
lays since, remarked (what we te. ea
—T believe that the secessu  .,

seain tomorrow in Maryland, 4

troops from there. I do

‘ance of loyalty there,

would continue
” .

from Penn-
« hate a few

ew wy ou by KU

Lhe sane pa, in a later issue, states
that Win, Lloyd &, ‘ison, the notorious abo-
litionist, is announ..d to deliver a lecture on
the War, at the Co er Institute, on Tues-
day evening, Janu" y 7th. Having been
thwarted in its base’ ttempt to create a riot
on the occasion of © x. Phillips’ speaking,
we presume none bus covert efforts will be
made to interfere wh Mr. Garrison ; and
we trust that those wh > are willing and de-
sirous to understand iis views aright, and
learn his sentiments a they actually are, in-
stead of as they may? .e distorted and put
forth by his enemien will avail of the ap-
proaching opportunity 0 listen to his utter-

§

Congressmamt dly, having been ex-
changed for Mr. Fat:kner, has arrived at
Washington, and furn" hes the papers with a
long and interesting afount of his capture
and imprisonment. I | has a list of 2,700
Unionists, held by th}rebels as prisoners.
Immediately after his Wapture, he narrowly
eseaped having his bra}s blowed out by a
druttken Colonel, nam} Cash. He thinks
adeep Union feeling «pervades Richmond,
and that, should our an bg within ten miles
of tho city, the Naish would Be hung
from hundreds of win “vs. Very likely ;
and on the following d:y, should we be re-
pulsed, the Confederate flag would again sup-
plant it, and thus vice usa during the con-
tinuance of the contes}, according as_ the
Rebels or Unionists for jhe time gain the as-
cendeney. 1! §

Economicat.—lt g ity authorities of New
Orleans have ordere; the Street Commis-
sioners to take down, }nd safely pack away,
for future use, all the treet lamps made of
copper.

ances.

Gen. Roseerans, in his speech at Cin-
cinnati a short time siiee, remarked he did
not believe that the estern section of Vir-
ginia would ever havi given in to secession,
if but moderate protittion had been oflorded;
and that the chief extso for occupying that
section was to allay the fears of the Unionists,
excited by the coiduet of the secessionists.

§

Connections.—In the letter from Wm. 2.
Walker, printed on the third page of our last
number, ouf readers will pleaso make the
following corrections—viz.: in the second
line of P.S., substitute actually for literally,
and in the fourth lino from the bottom, 7e-
main for remove.

— By the steamtug Atlantic, at New
“vk from Port Royal, 8. C., has heen re-
“from tho U. 8. Government-shippers
ceived - snsignment of sea-istand cotton, bo-
the first eu" S

sae 150,000 pounds; 400,000 pounds

+ -, tpment.
additional await se"

nC os
ing words . I, yes a smart...
how! Indade, we! Yes a match tor
any man of yer size!”

It is not, however, my intention to dis-
prove by logical argument, the absurd theory
to which I have adverted, but to call atten-
tion to a living, tangible demonstration of its
incorrectness. Such a demonstration we
have in the establishment, growth, and pres-
ent condition of a settlement of fugitive slaves
in the township of Buxton, C. W., a settle-
ment conecrning which much has been_ said
and written. Jet us look at the naked, un-
varnished facts, and let us reflect that the
persons who compose this settlement are refu-
gces from the horrors and iniquities of sla-
very—American slavery. The lash and
the iron have drank their blood. Both
Church and State have hurled their poi-
soned arrows at their bleeding hearts. ‘The
system of which they have been the vic-
tims cannot be described. I will be par-
doned if I indulge in a simile more
truthful than pocticul. Slavery is like an
old goose, which cuts everything before tt,
and kills everything behind it, Thank God !
it’s time is short.

This settlement was formed in 1849, for
the purpose of providing colored persons in
Canada with homes. It was incorporated by
Act of Parliament in 1850. It contains
about eighteen square miles of country, in
the township of Buxton, and County of Kent,
Canada West. ‘he land was purehased
from the Government, by Rey. Wm. King
of Louisiana, (formerly a slaveholder,) at a
cost of $18,000. It is divided into farms
of fifty acres each, with a road sixty-six feet
wide, running past each farm. The houses,
which are mostly built of round or hewed
logs, are set at a short distance from the road,
with a grass plat in front, and the garden and
yard enclosed with a neat and substantial
fenee. Some of the early settlers have good
frame houses, well furnished. Most of them
aro whitewashed, and covered partly with the
grape vine. ‘This gives to the dwellings a
neat and beautiful appearance. The settlers
have cleared from ten to thirty acres of land,
built their houses, and provided their own
farming implements, without “taking the hat
around.” Some whom I visited farm 100,
and some 150 acres. ‘Their farms are as well
cultivated as any I saw in the West. Some
who were fugitives when they came into
Canada, without one cent, are living on ex-
cellent farms, cleared and paid for by them-
selves. I may mention Mr. George Hatter,
who owns and farms 150 acres, Green Due,
Henry R. ‘Thomas, Isaac Riley, and a num-
ber of others, all of whom farm 100 aeres,
and more. Thomas W. Stringer and A. D.
Shadd, are excellent and extensive farmers.
They are also counsellors, and are very highly
esteemed. ‘The lands are well adapted to
pasture, and some good horses are raised by
tho settlers. ‘Lhe principal erop is wheat,
but Indian corn, peas, oats and harley, grow
well. The settlers have paid, without any
assistance, about $10,000 for their lands, the
price eharged them per acre being $2.50, the
actual cost to the first buyers. In two or

three years they expect to pay for the whole.
There are two good schools, 2 male and fe-
Some of the

male, attended by 120 pupils

‘here trod a Decatur ~.... .
Barry, ina calm and silence broken only by
the voice of the man of God—We commit
this body to the deep ;? and the plunge and
the ripples passing, the.sea has closed over
their memory forever, Ah! we have waited
on shore and have seen the circle of that rip-
ple. We know, at least, where they went
down ; and so much, to-day, we come to re-
cord.

“We have had in Ohio, until very recently,
and if they are living, have here now, a few
colored men who have thus connected us with
the past. I have been told of one, recently, in
the southern portion of the State.

“Another, of whom we all know, has resid-
ed, for many years, near Urbana, Champagn
county. He was invited to, and expected
at, this meeting. Father Stanup (as he is fa-
miliarly called) has lived to a good old age.
Tle has been afflicted with recent sickness, and
it may have prostrated him permanently. ‘The
frosts of a hundred winters will shrivel any
oak ; the blasts of a century will try any vi-
tality. ‘The aged soldier must soon die. O,
that liberty, for which he fought, might be be-
queathed to his descendants! The rea-ization
of that idea would smooth his dying pillow,
and make the transit from this to another
sphere a pleasant passage. CU am eredibly
informed, that the age of Mr. Stanup is one
hundred and nine ; that he was with General
Washington ; and that his position, in’ this
respeet, has been recognized by officers of
the Governient.”

Purther on, Mr. Day said :-—T think we
have demonstrated this point, that if colored
people are among your Pompeys, and Cuffees,
and Uncle Toms, they are also among your
heroes. ‘They have been on Lakes Erie and
Champlain, upon the Mediterranean, in
Florida with the Creeks, at Schuylkill, at
Hickory Ground, at New Orleans, at Horse
Shoe Bend, and at Pensacola. The presence
of some of them here tc=lay is a living rebuke
to this land.”

Addressing the large crowd of white citi-
zens present, Mr. Day  said:—‘We can be,
as we always been faithful subjects, powerful
allies, as the documents read here to-day
prove ; an enemy in your midst, we would
be more powerful still. We ask for liberty;
liberty here—liberty on the Chalmette Plains
—liberty'wherever floats the American flag.
We demand for the sons of the men who
fought for you, equal privileges. We bring
to you, to-day, the tears of our fathers,—each
tear isa volume, and speaks to you. To
you, then, we appeal. We point you to
their blood, sprinkled upon your door-posts
in your political midnight, that the Yestroy-
ing Angel might pass over. We take you
to their sepulchres, to see the bond of honor
between you and them kept, on their part,
faithfully, even until death.”

‘he following extracts from an address de-
livered, in 1842, before the Congregational
and Presbyterian Anti-Slavery Society, at
Prancestown, N. I., by Dr. Harris, a Rev-
olutionary veteran, will be-read with great
interest ;—

« T sympathize deeply,” said Dr. Harris,
“in the objects of this Society. I fought,
my hearers, for the liberty which you enjoy.
Tt surprises me that every man does not ral-
ly at the sound of liberty, and array himself
with those who are laboring to abolish slavery
in our country. ‘The very mention of it
warms the blood in my veins, and,-old as T
am, makes me feel something of the spirit and
impulses of 776. :

es, slavery would not continue a year.
Nu, you would then go and abolish it with
the sword, if it were not speedily done
withgut. But is it a suitable cause for
making men slaves, because God has given
them such acolor, such hair and such features,
as he saw fit?”

{70 BE CONTINGED.]

LETTER FROM 5, R. WALKER.

At Revnen CLARK’s,‘
Near CaRTHAGENA, Mercer Co., Ohio,
December 3, 186].

Correspondence of The Pine and Palm.

Mr. Redpath—Dear Sir: 1 sit down to
write you a few items in regard to the early
settlement and origin of this place, &c.
From all that I can learn of old settlers, this
colony was settled or founded, in 1837, by
that great benefactor of the colored race,
Augustus Watles, who labored in his day
to clevate the colored people and place them
in an independent position as free men and
women, just as Haytian emigrationists are do-
ing now. Many ignorant persons opposed
Mr. Watles’ plan, but_ the rising generation
are doing justice to Mr. Watles’ memory.
So it will be with the men now acting in
this gréat enterprise. The emigration move-
ment will be an epoch in the history of the
colored American race.

As I entered this farfamed Mercer
settlement from the North, my knapsack
on my back, I met many dark faces, some
on horseback, and others with teams,
going to Celina, the county seat, to pay
tax, As I neared the town I came to
three men of unmistakable African descent
building a bridge. I was kindly invited to
stop and rest, which invitation I accepted.
After a moment’s conversation, they sur
mised that I was the person who was to aa-
dress the people of the town that night.
These three gentlemen,—H. Hurd, W.
Kendall, and Mr. Wright, —were substantial
well-to-do farmers, who, true to the instincts
of their race, extended their hospitalitics,
which I gratefully accepted ; taking tea with
Mr. Hurd, and lodging with Mr. Wright.
This place contains many beautiful farms,
with large and well-finished houses, belonging
mostly to colored people. As I entered the
post office I saw the room full of young
farmers, calling for their letters, and other
mail matters. ,

This settlement contains five churches,—
two Baptist, two Wesleyan Methodist, and
an A. M. E. Chureh—five school districts,
numbering from 40 up to as high as 75
scholars.

This upper settlement has one district and
one church. I have held three meetings here,
and as our friends say, with fine success ;
thirty were present the first night, many of °
them the heads of large families. Mr. R.
Clark’s family consists of 9 persons ; Mr.
E. Durant’s of 10; Mr. B. Durant’# of 8
persons. These men are of the bone and
sinew of the place, being rich farmers and
having outgrown the shackles their fathers
wore, are becoming restive, and asking
themselves the question, ‘What shall they do
to place their children beyond the over:
shadowing influences of American slavery?
Yours, &e., B. R. Waker.

—Day, panting with heat, and laden with
a thousand cares, toils onward like a beast
of burden; but Night—is a ministering an-
gel that cools with its dewy breath the toil
heated brow ; and, like the Roman sisterhood,

stoops down to bathe the prilgrim’s feet.

MEENA EE CANT EET ST ORLLEN BA DUC ROS ae EET Ste a Vast toa,

ine

He affirmed that it) would be his greatest
pleasure to help in drawing the nations to-
gether in bonds of amity, which would con-
duce to the goud of all; and professed: great
revrét that Captain Clapperton, called Add

andy

most of the route, watey is scarce, and pro-
visions are not easily obtained. Gold winds
and gtortns alternate with sorching heat “and
clouds of sand.

Wo to the unhappy traveller who deviates

The 7

nies ppreeraE

YEAR NUMBER, L

+n ar rt te

\
1
t

x

WHOLE 1

been sttecked, by sightede
stripped him and taken awe
attendant, saying,

his th

_8h

~~ Y Hold Still. —

PROM THE GERMAN OF JULIUS STURM.

‘Guid are loaded, the cattle are sent into the
rear, and the:men: form in front, as if to meet
an enemy. Creat, joy it is when tho, stran-
‘gers are discovered to:he friendly, when they
ean exchange salutations and news, and fur-

part until he had received a similar gift, ‘This
_ was very mortifying, as the pistols were  re-
served for a person of more importance in
furthering the traveller's interest ; but the
holy nem would not he content with less. The

vr Branches,
: Tite SEL SE expressed great indignation on hearing that
tho travellers had been wronged by tribes

under his jurisdiction, who had deprived

‘pain’s farnace-heat within me qitivers, town, which is situated ina narrow valley Miah (“servant of tial”) had died in his | them of presents intended for the sultan him- | froun tho proper track, and gets: lost in the nish each other by fate with He cominodi- o hncaand bo /
canta my Mes nin i ele ehivers low, anid surrounded with walls, is only noted for | dominions, fearing lest this untoward: event | self. He vowed vongeance for this offence, |desert! [is fate nay be gathered from the | ty that cither may stant in wee a thire | her live fara pe se
vamaad trecabtes at the ery glow; its onions and cotton cloth. wight arouse the suspicion of Kuropeans. which he afterwards made a pretext for en-| narrow escape of Dr. Barth, who lefthiscom-| | When different tribes of Ara more i re Behe of ae elles
And yet Lwhisper-—As God will! Suckotu, or rather Sackatu, isthe capital of | At the next interview, when Dr. Barth | riching himself with the spoils of tkeso tribes ; | panions: to visit a remarkakle mountain near | is another: danger boaides that, of bandits. | body om ine noes AP
~ Atal, in His hottest tire, hold still the province of Zanfara, and of one the chief | went to the palace with his presents, he | since one part of his reyonuc’ consists of fines | which th caravan would pass. He took There may bea blood-feud between the par- vont as ne
“Ho vomes and lays my. heart, all heated, and most populous towns in Central Africa, | found Aliyu ina room built of reeds, sitting | levied on maraudors, ‘The rest of his income | with him w few dry biscuits and dates, which | ties. Tf an Arab’s friend, Kinsman OF evel . “te °
“On the bard anvil, minded so It is known to Europeans as the place where | on a wooderi divan, ‘The sultan is a stout | is derived from the. presents or contributions | he sgon fou nd to he a very bad kind of food -one of his clan has been murdered, he mu ne 2
ee a ie pacar nee Pe blow; the gallant Clapperton died, worn out with | man, of middle size, with a round, fat, good- received at his accession, and+a small tax on Without water. As the sun reached the ze-| avenge his death on the criminal or on me me Mie
~ And yet Lwhisper—As God willl | sufferings and) disappointments. It does ; humored face ; inheriting the features of his | forcign merchandise and salt. nith, the traveller got tired and exhausted, ‘of his friends, Retaliation follows ; an vis , «: nee
And, at his heaviest blows, hold still inother, who was a Howssa slave, rather than | ‘hid sultan had been deposed a few years |and found af tas‘t that he was lost. In vain | a blood-feud is perpetuated from father to son, | treatmen.. -

seem fo require the patience of Job to travel
through these regions with anything like a
happy equanimity ; fer all the kings and
chiefs, great and small, try to detain the for-
einer as long as possible, in order to get
more presends from bin, and through jealousy,
lest he should bestow his gifts on a neighbor
orarival,  Sovkotu is surrounded with a
good wall, between Gventy and thirty feet
high, and has twelve gates, which are regalar-,
ly closed at sunset. [thas two large mosques,
besides other places for prayer ; and is
laid out in well arranged sircets. The dwell:
ings of the aristocracy consist of enclosures
containing several houses built’ in’ Moorish
style. ‘The inhabitants aro chiefly Felattas,
possessing numerous slaves ; and it is, there-
fore, a Mahometan city, though the people

; woe an are not so intolerant asin Timbuetu and
| No, XXII.—Benevotence. Jenne. The situation of the town is healthy,
When thow consiterest thy wants, when thou be! Yuinw on a long ridge; but an adjacent: marsh

‘through successive generations,
‘Pwo Mesuratas (Arabs of a town’ near
-Tripoll), who’had killed: a Tibbu chief: and
his followers two years before, were of our
party; and although the Tibbu had taken
‘amplo vengeance by murdering twonty-five
-men for eight; five of whom they had ‘assas-
sinated in the night since our passing the |:
"youd, yet they conttnded there: was blood“be-
tween them, and we all feared a disturbance.
‘This morning it broke out, and was very near
‘ being serious;. the Arabs’ ‘guns were twice
: presented, and had any blood been spilt on
either side, we should havé probably been all
prisoners to the Tibbu, or if victorious bave
sacked their whole town.”

he fired his: pistol:3, to give a signal to. his
friends, and ascendid one mound . after an-
other, to try and cat-ch a glimpse of the cara-
‘vans: When the sur-t sot, he intended to light
a fire, but could ‘tiot n wster strength to gath-
er wood ; and therefor‘ scrambled to an old
tree, under which he n ught lic down. '- After
reposing-for an hour or .two, he discovered a
large fire in the valley, which he hoped to
be that-of his companion: 3 He fired again
and again, but received no response. He
tried to sleep, but could not; and lay tossing
on.the ground, feverish and restless, longing
for the dawn of day... Collecting all his
strength, he then load .ed his pistols with a
heavy charge, and. fir xed once, twice. The : acd
sound seemed loud ¢ nough to wake the dead;) _ It seems that a-relation of the deoea od
strongly did it echo and reverberate from the | chief went'to the tent of one of the Mes

site hi II- d the valley; but | uratas, and talking of the death of his kins-
opposite mills, andr olf roun ' ovaeys man, shook his spear at the Arab, who seized

previously, to. make way for another ; but a
restoration was effected ; and subsequently,
another change was made; so that, though
tho people adhere to ono family of kings,
they seem to think that a change of persons
“is lightsome.’? His re-iristallation was now
at hand; and Dr. Barth witnessed the pro-
cession. ‘Ihe ceremony. was as follows:
Abd El Kader was conducted’ from his
private apartment to the public hall. ‘Then
tho chiofs of two tribes, Itisan and Kelgeres,
asked him to sit down on a couch made of
pal trees, covered-with mats and a carpet.
He did so, but kept his fect on the ground,
till the chiefs of the Kelowi desired him to
lift them up on the divan, and 60 recline
fully in Eastern style. ‘This was to show
the joint investure of their new sovereign by
all these tribes. A procession was thon
formed to the chapel or tomb of a Mahometan

those of his father. Tle was quite frank, and
had thrown off his paternal reserve, not even
using the face-covering worn by Pullo princes
in the presence of strangers. [fis dress con-
sisted of Jittke more than a grey tobe or
smock-shirt. Ile was greatly pleased with
his presents, chiefly consisting of brocaded
garments of various colors, a carpet, razors,
looking-glasses, sugar and spices; but was
enraptured with the last offering, a pair of
silver mounted pistols, the like of which he
had never seen. With childish joy he fre-
quently exclaimed, “I (hank you, [thank
you ; God bless you, Gad bléss you.”

As the sultan was on the eve of departing
ona short expedition, and the etiquette of
the country did not allow a distinguished
stranger to leave in his absence, Dr. Barth
was obliged to wait in the capital till his re-
turn. But Aliyu sent him 100,000 kurds,

. He takes my softened heart, and beats it,
Tho sparks fly off at every blow;
* He turns it o’er and o'er, and heats it,
Aud fets ic cool, and makes it glow;
And yet I whisper—As God will!”
And, in His mighty hand, hold still.

_ Why should Limtrmar? for the sorrow
‘Tuas only longer-lived: would be;

> Fas cad may come, and will, to-morrow,

. When God has done his work in mo;
So L say, trusting—As Gud will!
And, trusting tg the end, hold stil.

- He kindles for.ny profit, purely,
»  AfPiction’s glowing, fiery brand,
> And all hie heatiest blows are, surely,
“h Dnftieted by a Master-hand;
So laay, praying—As God will!
And fiope in Him, and suffer still,
we —Churles T. Brooks.

Fs

rr)

tf

Ras

much as what might with strict: |
called a blade of. grass. . This is

“peldest thy imperfections, acknowledge bis good: |

and stagnant pools cause it to be very agueish.

equivalent to about 10/, to defray his house-

saint outside the town, where the sultan said

“The sun that I hy +d half ‘longed for, half

his gun and:shouted the alarm. Both par-

“ness, O man! who honored thee with redsun, en- , " t 1 , ) n nN ' . : ‘mini: | ver
* dowed thee with. speech, and placed thee in society | A stranger is first introduced to the vizier | hold expenses in the interim, — He also his prayers, and on bis return the couipany | looked forward ww with. terror, at last rose. ties Hew to arms, and a fight soornatl im he * otice of fa books of travel that I
Bd reeelve and coufer reciprocal helps and mutually. gadado, ‘The vizier, during Clapperton’s | furnished him with all the papers that he | dispersed. My condition, as the he: at went on inereasing, | nent. Captain Denham an 4 “he Tibby' T eannot help thinking thie sarely I.
. A . sau . /, ert . . . . . . a . , 7 read . rhant 2
°vthy food, thy clothing, thy convenience of habi- | sojourn in the town, wasan elderly man, very | desired. What a pity that other sovereigns} In the procession, the new prince rode first became more d-eadfui; : and Terawled around, cake re vvdently afraid "6 ' * ; “ara bs), aust be'the firet English farmer whe bas asl
dion, thy protection from the injuries, thy enjoy-! jlite. spoaki Arabic exceedingly we semble this negro prince in his|on a fine horse of the Taw, i st famous | changing every moment my position, in order | (who wer GC AFAOB), se ane 4 OT ne eet eal fe
tation, thy protec , polite, speaking Arabic exceedingly well. | do not resemble this negro prinee it . i, a mo ging y y , eelared tho eauso of the offence, and pointed {a visit to this land STipon'my iin ae

-. rent of the cornforts and the pleasures of life, thon
, Owest to the assistance of others; and coutdest not

“Wele' thy duty therefore to bo fricndly to man-

loy but in the bands of socicty.

¢ aa it is thy interest, that men should be

The sultan seemed to live in greater simpli-
cily than some of the ebiefs of inferior places.
Clapperton passed through several guard
houses, and was then introduced to Sultan

jeific and enlightened policy! Verily all
the wisdom of the world does not dwell in
Kurope and America.

One would like to see a real “city of the

breed, wearing a fine robe of colored’ cotton
and silk, witha blue bernyoge over it, and in
his girdle a golden -handle-] scimitar. . ‘Then
came several officers of tht: household, Next

to enjoy'the little shade a fforded by tho leaf-
less-branches of the tree. 2 \hout noon, there
was, of course, scarcely a sp ot ofsshade left—

only enough for my head, and I ‘suffered’

out the offender, wlio they said ought to be
punished. The dispute was afterwards re-
ferred to Hadj Mohammed Abedcen, to be

-rusalem, . and . perceiving ;;
that was brought into the

the.

eS

: oy. ln xnctslte o> te 4k, Saye: _. : . 5 ; :
2 TAS tho rove bveatheth sweetness from its own 1a-! Bello, scated on a small carpet, between two | desert,” if it were not for the dangers and | rode the chiefs of the Itisan and Kelgeres, in greatly from tho pangs of thir. st, although :T: decided ‘ aceotding to te book . He St tenor _tveire sae i
_ fares 20 the heart of a benevolent man produceth pillars which supported the roof, ‘The walls.| diflicultics of the journey. In twenty days’ | full dress ‘and armor, consisting of sword, sucked alittle of my blood, 1 ill I became. made the partes swear that t ey: would al ide | I quanti ty wae goats ae
“i He enjoyeth the case and tranquility of his own | and pillars were painted blue and white, in the | hard travelling from Wurno, you could reach i dagger, long spear, anc immense’ shield.. senseless, and fell into a sort of delirium, . by his ocision; tn in presen tenons the td wT hele bowing
sajeast; an yejoiceth in the happiness and pros- | \oorish taste; and on the back wall was the | the ancient and royal city of Agades, once} The sultan of the Kelowi followed, . with a from. which I only recovered W hen the sun chicfs of both.sides, opened: he oran, and ‘piace which tan he bake
“ Wagity of Ril cighbor. sketch of an ornamented fire-screen. the capital of a Desert empire, now ina half | long train of his: people un swift camels. | went down behind the miountai: jg,” I then | read therefrom. . It was found written, th Tonsit'not but enclaim, bishop’

ating: of men give pain to his heart.
TR chiles © aii good; and he searcheth out
of-asether he refioveth himself.

-_ M¥fvom the larveness of his mind; he comprehend-
qt ia bis. wishes the

io openeth nt his ear anto slander; the faults

ions theraof;.in removing tho oppression

happiness of all men; and

Sultan Bello’s brother sold to Clap
somo of the remains of Major Denham
gage, which had been lost in a military foray
which he had joined. ‘He told me that he

porton
8 bag-

deserted and ruinous condition. The danger
from robbers in this district is not great, if you
travel in company with one of the large salt
caravans, which are under.the protection of

‘The men of the town closed the. procession,
«mo on horseback, but most on’ foot, ‘armed,
"-sesed in their best fine: -y.’- Soveral of
wore very pictur ssque ;, and the

~1g and inart. ‘al appearance.

regained: some consciousness, : ind crawled
out of the shade of-the tree, thto wing a ‘mel-
ancholy glance ovér the plain, wie-n sudden-
ly I heard the ery of a camel. It was + the
most delightful music I ever heard in 1. ay

if any man lifts his. hafid higher’ than bis
shoulder, in a nievacing ‘attitude, thongh he
should not be armed; the advereary is not to/
wait the falling of the blow, but, may strike,
even to dgath. * This law, was in favor of the

: j say ssed a great many slaves ; and I saw | powerful chieftains; though these are some- ee, | m nttul ver , 0 Gagtn, 3 JAW wa OF OF
Spee ony of his heart, ne endea oreth ° many females about hie person, most of them Fes attacked by a hostile tribe. Butsmall ; ‘ oades are. tall, with life’;” and raising myself a little from pow Arab, who {ould and. did. wa. at the
o ee ee | very beautful.’”? . The prince kept civet cats, ; companies of men aro never secure in’ these d. aa, j,and they al- ground, I saw mounted Fa 4 pa , id” wed with a spear,’ to attack
- She , Palm. ~ Jofwhich he had 200. These animals were | wild regions. ‘The present inhabitants | low their . ian thatrehanl. | same Aictanee. from : foot Wed ad, arm Sim doa L This. decision.
: very ferocious, and were confined in separate | chiefly consist of the Tagama, Kelgeres and | de“ — ootstep x cad ene
wooden cages. They were about four feet | Kelowi; but the Tawarek and other ‘Arab |b ma , ow

“Sultan Bello-—Civet Cata—An Tropudent Exteutioner—

THE. AFRICANS AT HOMES .

BY REV. RM. MACBRATR, M.A. vf
Dale pee ag

. CHAPTER 1X. an
ward from Bay—Gando—Royal Covetousness—Sockota

long,-from the nose to the tip of tho tail; and
resembled a small hyena, except iv tle great |
Jer length of
with pounded.

ma "into. batls*

i
{

ne w

boty and tail.
uinea ‘corr j

ere

tren

tribes infost thenicighborhood!

*

Hero‘and: there, if you keep the proper

route, you will meet with a well *-
cvon'a ‘small town. “Sometimes -y
"-~waReavezal days without findine +

“Warne—Sulfar’ wer Midna}
- ae ; ne NUSUIO'> Qurniy Ww
. jom- é We Mark nt 1 tie NV anew a. .
Sulten--Royal x Mén and :W —Mark a $44 . on | . Z

; Court of Justice—More of the Desert—Narrow Escap. -
Etfeets of Thirst—Route by Rilma—Skeletons—Fato,‘of
Couriers—Mutual Fears—Blood Feuds—~Salt Lak¢s—
Surgicat Operation~-Sons of the Desert Plundering.

“We must now ‘return to Say, whore we

imal was thrist into'a. corner, auu wo sean
held ‘down with a stick.

“Twas sitting in the shade before my |
door, with Sidi Sheik, the sultan’s fighi, ©
when an ill-looking wietch, with a fiend-like -

..cks ‘help ‘themselves to
‘ys of the Tibbu,’ without
to pay for it, as they have
} for buying any goods

tenuated spectre,” perhaps'a ‘crumb is not
thrown--oncé’’a ‘year ;" but ‘when’! ahungered
and: athirst. to. famine—when all hamanity*
has forgotten’ the dying tenant of a decaying

an ° : : ‘6 ; house—_ Divi ‘ t
left the Niger, and proceed on our travels! grin on his countenanec, came and placed auy Las! Mee eee, to see the wild Arabs per oe 7 a aha emorey remembers the mourn
astwi i sisi of most | hims irectly before .m ask idi wouve thi chi: y l m; so thu Ww anarati aan ae oe ha or a
eastward, in order to visit one of the most! himself directly before .me. I asked Sidi uve thief, though -uy not very {the town ; so that he w ~~ “peration on a sick , man?) earthly nutriment is to pass no more: PRibI.

populous and powerful regions of Africa.
This country-has the general appellation of
the -fTowssa States, and contains several small
and tributary kingdoms or provinees, as Gan-
do, Sockotu, Katsena.

Janoes of all sizes are ready to transport
you and your effects across the river‘at Say. |
But if your luggage is very bulky, you must
haye one of the larger sort. ‘Such a boat is |
about forty feet in length, and‘four to five!
feet in width in the middlé; formed of two!
hollowed trunks of trees sewn together in the
centre. It twill carry three camels. The!
strcam is here contracted by a rocky hank,
and is only about 700 yards broad, but has
a noble appearance.

The main route from this place eastward is
pretty much frequented; andthe road is va-!
ried, being by turns rocky, woody, and swam- |
py. The people are poor, and the village :
and towns of no particular interest. But;
here is a salt-hamlet, of which there are sev- |
eral in this locality! It adjoins a large |
mound of rubbish about 200 yards square, |
and from 20 to 50 in height, formed of the ,
mould of the valley from which the saline!
particles have been extracted. The carth of |
the salt vale is put into large funnels made |
of straw and reeds ; so that when water is
poured ‘upon the carth, it is strained through
the funnels. Being ‘received into vessels
placed underneath, it is boiled, and the sedi-
ment is foried into small loaves of salt. The
product is of a greyish yellow color, and of
tolerable quality, especially for culinary pur-
The natives also extract salt from the

Sheik who he was? He answered with great
composure, ‘Ihe executioner.’ I ‘instant-
ly ordered my seryants to turn him out. ‘Be
patiént,’ said Sidi Sheik, laying his hand on
mine, ‘he visits the first people in Socketu,
and'they never allow lim to go away without
giving him a few goora nuts, or moncy to
buy them.’ “Tn compliance with this hint, I
requested forty cowries to be given to the
fellow, with striet orders never again to cross
my threshold.” This villain had applied to
the governor for the office of executioner,
which his own brother then held, boasting of
his superior adroitness in the family vocation,
The governor said, “We will try;—go fetch
your brother’s head.” The wretch immedi-
ately went to his brother’s house, and find-
ing him quictly sitting in the doorway, struck
off his head at one blow with a sword, giv-
ing him no warning whatever of his mission.
He carried the bleeding trophy to the gover-
nor, and claimed the promised office, which
was given to him. We has had plenty of
work to do, ‘The capital punishments inflict-
ed in Sudan are beheading, impaling, and
crucifixion ; the first being inflicted on Ma-
hometans, the two latter on pagans. Wretches
linger on the cross for a period of three
days, before death terminates their sufferings.

During Clapperton’s stay in Sockotu, pro-
visions were regularly sent him from the sul-
tan’s table on pewter dishes, with the London
stamp ; and one day, meat was served to
him ina white wash-hand basin of English
manufacture.

ferocious. It has searec., any mane, and
differs in this respect from the lion of central
Africa, whose mane is large and beautiful.
These wild beasts hunt in companies of foar
and five, and will not hesitate to steal a
camel.

‘he people of the desert dwell in small
villages of huts, built of mats attached to
stalks of corn or to young trees, and roofed
with branches covered with hides. They
subsist chiefly by cattle breeding, hunting,
stealing, and convoying caravans, ‘Their
manners are very free, aud the morals of beth
sexes are described as extremely loose.

The naturalist could find some objects of
interest in the desert. There is a plaut,
ealled in Howssa “tkumkuninia,”’ a species
of euphorbia, which grows to the height of
nearly two feet. It is yery poisonous, and
is ured to anoint the tips of ‘arrows. ‘Then
there is the ‘‘aido,”’ a grass ‘covered with
large and strong prickles, very distressing to
naked feet. One part of the country is
nearly covered with the Ascleptas gigantea,
on the leaves of which the cattle fied. It
has a milky juice (used by pagans to foment
their ‘giya,”’) which spots clothes, and even |
injures the hair of horses. Acacias, dwarf
laurels, and other stunted plants grow in the
more fertile places.

Now suppose that we could be transported
across this desert region, which we gladly
leave to its present oceupants, and that we
could be set down in Agades itself. This
once far-fumed city deserves a little notice.

rand are often protrac ed to a late hour of the

reserved, and even to» vats
than he wished. ‘There several mark
in Agades. That for If +: stock contained a
number of camels. ‘The vegetable market is
not so well supplied, th — stock‘ being small,
except of cucumbers, at 2 Molukhia ( Cor-
chorus olttorious.) Te butcher’s market
has'a sufficient quantity of meat; and num-
bers of large vultures ‘are sitting on the
rumed walls, ready tos size upon any kind
of offal that may be let all.
In another market o bazaar, held in a
kind of hall supported) »y stems of the doom-
tree, women sell a var sty of ornamental and
other articles ; such P ‘necklaces and beads,
sandals, small boxes of leather. and tin, and
saddles. ‘The leather: — boxes. or purses are
very neatly made, of; Aerent colors and a!
variety of sizes. ‘Th sandals, also, are very
neat, and are highly .. rized throughout the
country. Tho artisar s in leather-work are
almost entirely womer , who live together in a,
quarter of the town, \ hich used to be sepa-
rated from the rest bi: a gate. Though the |
inhabitants are Mos ems, and are far from
hearing good will to infidels, Christians, or
Jews; yet they dc not’ deny themselves
in their favorite < nusements of dancing j
and music. ‘The pastimes, with gossip-
ing occupy, the Icisu e time of the evening,

night. A spectator of one of their moonlight |
balls represents the: oung men as dancing |
in pairs, placed oppr site to cach other, stamp- |
ing with the foot, atl whirling round in cir-
cles; the performan™> meeting with the ap-

ceeey seus daapua wy Urn by
na, describe some parts of their desert

|journey as having been very toilsome and.

distressing. ‘he caravan lost’ many camels
through fatigue ; and they often passed nu-
merous skeletons of unhappy persons, chiefly
slaves, who had died of exhaustion on their
way to Tripoli. Near one well they counted
more than a hundred, some of which had the
skin still attached to the bones. During a
day’s journey of twenty-six miles, they passed
107 of these skeletons. No wonder! ‘The
poor slaves are marched with chains round
their legs and necks, with a scanty supply of
provision, and with no warm clothing. Their
privations, therefore, must he great; for the
traveller says, ‘it was the eighth day since
our camels had ‘tasted water,—and_ at ‘niight
it, blew a hurricane.” Again he writes,
‘During the last two days, we had passed
on an average trom:sixty to eighty or ninety
skeletons each day; but the numbers that
lay about the wells at El Hammar were
countless ; those of two women, whose per-
fect and regular teeth bespoke them young,
were particularly shocking. ‘Their arms still
remained clasped round each other, as they
had expired ; although the flesh bad long
since perished, by being exposed to the burn-
ing rays of tho sun, and the blackened hones
only were left. ‘The nails of the fingers, and
some of the sinews of the hand, also. remain-
eds and part of the tongue of one of them
still appeared through the teeth. We had
now passed six days of desert, without the

Herc is a specimen. A merchant of Tripoli,
travelling in the caravan, has been suffering
on the road from an enlarged spleen. He
is advised to undergo the operation of burn-
ing with ‘a red-hot ifon; which the Arabs
think an unfailing remédy for most internal
disorders. He consents. - They lay him’
down ou his back in the sand, where five or
six men hold him steady. ‘The rude surgeons
commence their work by burning him in
thre@places under the ribs of the left side ;
each wound being of the size of a sixpence.
Whilst the iron is again heating, a number of
thumbs are pressed into his side, to know if
he feels pains ; and their rough pressure is
so great, that the sick man declares he feels
pain allover, The operators then make four
more brands near the former ones ; then turn
ing him over, they make three larger near his
back bone. Finally, an old Arab, who has
been feeling his throat, declares that he re-
quires a large burn near the collar bone.
‘The patient submits to this savage treatnient
with admirable patience, and getting up,
drinks a large‘draught of water, and remounts
his camel for the journey. We should think
that this mangling must cither end or mend
the sufferer.

Wild and lawless are these children of the
desert. The escort of a caravan think them-
selves privileged to lay hold of any thing or
any body which comes in their way, and to
help themselves to whatever they need.
When any of the camels die of fatigue, they
try to replace them without money. When

cal promises, heard first in health, but then

unheeded, come whispering to the couch of
sickness ; it is.felt that a pitying God watches

what all mankind have forsaken ; the tender

compassion of Jesus is recalled; and’ relied

on; the fading eye, gazing beyond timé,'sees™
a home,.a_ friend, -a refuge in eternityi— .
Charlotte Bronté.

"Verna Vices.— Indulgence in. verbal
vice soon encourages corresponding vices in
conduct. Let any one of you come to talk
about any mean or vile” praétice with a fa-
miliar tone, and do you ‘suppose; when the
opportunity occurs for committing the mean
or vile act, he will be as strong against, it as
before? It is by no means an unknown
thing that men of correct lives talk themselves
into crime, into sensuality, into perdition:”
Bad language easily: runs into bad deeds.
Select any iniquity you please ; suffer your-
‘self to converse in its dialect, to u8e its slang,
to speak in the character of one who ap-
proves or relishes it, and I need not tell you
how soon your moral sense will lower down
its level. Becoming imtimate with it, you
lose your horror of it. This obvious princi-
ple, of itself, furnishes a reason for watching
the tongue.—P’. D. Huntington, DD.

Cautious Mex.—Some use words as rifle-

men do bullets. They are little. The, few
words used go right to the mark: They let

you talk, and guide with your cye and face,
till what you say can be answered in a word
or two, and then they launch.out a sentence
and pierce the matter ‘tothe quick, and are

S08, A little north of Sockotu is Wurno, the | It used to be surrounded with. a wall, but ? slightest appearance of vegetation, and a_lit- they are hungry or wish fora little flesh, woe - ree .
ashes of burnt grass, which has grown in aj capital of the great sovercign who reigns | this has disappeared from one side, and what | plause of numerou ‘admirers, who signify | tle branch of the suag (Capparis sodada) | to the shepherd who crosses their track ‘or in done. You never know Where you are ith
brackish soil. Other kinds of salt are brought | over the Towssa States, holding the provinces | remains is in 2 dilapidated state. ‘The south- | their approbation by ,ud clapping of hands. | was brought me here, asa comfort and a cu-| fear has fled at their approach. “What, not | them. Your conversation ‘falls int their
from the desert ; but the produce of the pits| which we have described in a kind of subjec- | ern part of the town is almost. cutitely de-| Besides the usual sleyers on instruments, | riosity. On the following day we had ajter-| stay to sell their sheep, the rogues! We'll minds as rivers into deep chasm nd are

tion as tributaries. one musician attracte yttention, by perform- © lost from sight by its depth 5) 4

is of very different qualitics.

This country, like that on the other side of
Say, is inhabited by Foolbe and Songhay,
and is in a very distracted condition, 'Trav-
ellers must keep a constant watch, to prevent
being surprised by some band of snarauders.

His empire extends to
Songhay on the west, and Bornu on the cast.
He isa liheral man, not haunted with the
ghost of Mahometan bigotry or asccticisin.
At the same time he wants energy of char-
acter, and is only a nominal warrior. Tis
Aéminions are, therefore, held with a feeble

serted, and many ruined houses are found in
every street. In the zenith of its prosperity,
Agades had a circuit of about three miles and
a half, and probably contained a population
of fifty thousand souls. Its greatest decline
took place at the close of last century,
when the conquests of the Tawareks

ing a solo on a sort. f yuitar, accompanying
it with an extempora eo\s song.

There is a crowd 0" persons assembled in
the vestibule of a hore detached from others,
and furnished with — verandah. It is the
residence of the cadi + judge, who is listen-

nately plains of sand and loose gravel, and
had a distant view of some hills to the west.
While T was dozing upon my horse about
noon, overcome by the heat of the sun, which’
at that time of the day always shone with
great power ; I was suddenly ‘awakened by
a crashing under his feot, which startled me

take them now without payment” (asif they
would ever have paid for them, except in
blows !) So a dozen of the escort start. off
in the direetion of the sheep-marks, and
scouring the valleys at length discover the.
hapless fugitives. There'are about twenty

that go right to the . --pTl t
they are silent ar mark like a gun-shot,

They will sometimes sux.» and darkness.

se you with words
and

The jj sain, as if reloading.

of life er .1¢ vexations and minor miseries

persons, including men, women, and chidren,

los "vn only de met with patience and phi-

The principal towns contains seven or eight Le ae down?” lik
thousand inhabitants, and are all walled andj hand, and the border country js in a state of | destroyed its principal markets; and a tide | ing to an interesting .wsuit. A stolen eamel excessively.” It was treading upon skulls. | having ten camels to‘convey their tents and) -PlY- They can’t be put bed oh °
fortified. A singular incident here befelone | much insecurity and distraction. This is | of emigration set in for Howssa. Dr. Barth | has been traced to the possession of a towns-| We shall not envy the Arabs their desert | goods, with about two hundred head of e-’ , ; 88 insurrection, nor expelled like a bad chung,

of Dr. Barth’s camels. It went raving mad,
leaped about in the most ludicrous manner,
kicked in every direction, and-at length fell
to the ground.

The next place of importance is Gando,
the capital of the Kebbi district, and residence
of « powerful Pullo prince. He is a nephew

specially the case on the western side, where
the stern followers of Othman wield a_ firm
sway, and are anxious to extend the reforms
(so called) of a stern [slamism. Aliya, on
the other hand, is content with the present
state of things, and has no zeal for proselyt-
ism ; a3 is evident from his allowing a pagan

estimates the present uuuber of inhabited
houses tg be six or seven hundred, and the
inhabitants to be about seven thousand. A.
large portion of the male population are al-
ways from home, on mereantile expeditions
of their own, or in conveying caravans, so
that the armed force of the place at any one

man, who proves that 1e bought it of a man
who swore it was his pwn property. The
complainant, who lost jhe camel, wishes to
recover its price from tse defendant, who had
bought and sold it agin under suspicious
circumstances. After searing the evidence
adduced on both sides, te judge decides in

home.

Sometimes couriers are sent from Bornu
to Moorzuk ; but only the ‘Tibbu will under-
take this arduous service. ‘Two are always
sent ; for the chances are against both of them
returning safe. ‘They are mounted on the
finest mahcrics (or swift dromedaries) ; and

Their retreat is intercepted by som uctle.
free-boviers, whilst the others d- og of the
and ina moment the capture “ash forward,
most rapid plunder that igmade. The
ceived quickly er | [ gould have con-
were instantly! ymenced. The camels
every part” rought to the ground, and.

Ww

member. * The best that can be done yith |
them is to pay as little attention,9 them as’
possible, and not. to double tein power by
fretting over them. AS\he immortal Shaks-
peare says—we doo, yomember - exactly’.

here—
“Fer ery evil under the sun

» . . . . . . . . . ~ : ay none>
of the reformer Othman, and like all his rela- people to skirt his eastern frontier. We | time seldom musters more than six hundred. | favor of the defendant. earry. with them_a hag of parehed corn, one | womer uf their load rifled. The poor eee A remy hand ity ,
teeg | . . . ' ye ance 4 sees too. , . an fj tos are paten Ma vac ‘ Ainlt 12 . he to ekind cof’ abyass basin F . . ‘ va. rm here is one, try, Aue ey
tives, is a stern and bigoted Musaulman. | shall glance at these Bedee when we come More than fifty houses are raised to two] ‘The vast region whiel{ lies between ‘Tripo- | or: two, sking (of (water, a. brass . basin and aj str and gitls lifted up their hands to mie, It ehere isn’t, never mind it?”

He spends his life ina secluded, imonkish

to them in our journey. Aliyu, on hearing

stories, or rather have a garret planted on

li and the heart of Africa, forming: the cast-

wooden bpwl, a li(tle, meat cut in strips and’

-pped as they wern to the skiti; br

—When in a despéndent mood, ‘look on

manner, and would not allow Dr. Barth to see | of Dr. Barth’s arrival, sent him a supply of | their flat roofs. ‘The better sort have a| ern skirt of the Sahara, lias been crossed by dried in the sun. A bags suspended we could do nothing for them beyond | the good things which. God has given you in

his holy face. he traveller was obliged to | provisions, consisting of an ox, four fat sheep, vestibule, with inner apartments, and a{ several enterprising travellers. But it. is|the’tail of the maheri “to” eateh the ver! their lives.” Tine chief soon car + £2¥NS se Epowatiful profusion; antl at the greater

leave its presents in the palace, without speak-| and two largo sacks of rice, cach containing | spacious court-yard, in which is an enormous | not, thereforé, either easy or secuée. ‘There | which‘falls, that it inh serve * dang! seemed ashamed of the we Me UP) and rood things which he. has’ promised ,you in
bedstead. ‘Purtle-doves, goats, and young | are two principal caravan routes. tirough -it, | night. The : journey occur “ So} altry booty, and | 8 oh) and a ch '

ing to hig august occupant. - But the sancti-
ty of the sultan did not prevent his being
quite alive to his temporal interests, and try-
ing to extort the utinost from a stranger. At
first, he signified his approval of the presents
sent to him; but baving heard that his guest
had given a pair of silver mounted pistols to
the emir of Suckotu, ho refused to let him de-

*The fall title of this book is: “The Africana at Heine,
Being Popular Description of Africa and the Africans, con-

ahout two hundred weight; intimating his desire
to sec him immediately. He was found
sitting. on a raised platform under a tree in
front of his dwelling. He reecived the tray-
eller with great cordiality, shaking hands
with him, and begging him to sit: down in
front.of him. He said that he had heard of
all hig movements, had received his letter
sent through the Sultan of Agades, and enter-
ed heartily into the views of his mission ; so

ostriches may be found ranting about here,
and plenty of children. In the back court
are several apartments for the women. ‘The
great bedstead is a piece of furniture peculiar
{o the Songhay tribes. In Agades, itis like a
small house built of strony boiirds, and fur
nished with a canopy of mats. ‘The dwellings
require to be spacious, as they sometimes con-
tain a little clan of people.

| there a spot of verdure ; whilst lawles:

the more westerly one passing néax --A gades,
and the casterly passing through Bilma. By
either of these, the journey is fraught ‘with
many hardships and dangers. High ntouns
tains of barren rocks and sand Have to: li
surmounted, and many intricate defiles to be

wr fuel at
,e8 about forty
yeed. It is wonder-
» ean be found.
snowledge that it is.a most
+ 28taneo when two caravans are

days, travelling af dest. sr
ful that-sueh couriers
» The Arab ack
exciting-ch
byaine i
about .t¢

passed, vast plains must be crossdil, of the
dreariest description, with only ‘here +

As-soon as a-dark'object appear”
and | tince, the stern-quastion cor. in the dis-

ther wtéet each other in the desert: -
y, have songs to commemorate suek and

even Us:

ures

was moved by the tears epee!
seized the favors’ 2 of the sufferers.

thatthe Arab _-v!¢ montent, and advised
and have 3 Should give everything: back ,
pic v a fow sheep'and an ox for a feast.
19 was finally agreed to; the. women's
wrappers were thiown down, and the robbers
wontof with ten shdep anda fat bullock:
The chiefof the escort sont forward a
sengeriwith <a eeol- and man, to,” the

tl

oL

b
d

take the, place of despondency. _ well’
on the Jark side thirigs, bat on life's

for. a flower. may. return Inte
onc blooming in his boson.

swear—the worst

y next world, and a cheerful gratitude ma
ne next world, anc ac oney. en pun f

He. who -goce’ into his
ebe- and spiders, no
while he -who looks
to his house with |

righter aspects: .“,
rden to seek ‘for coby
oubt, will find. them ;

Mr. Schoolcraft says the Indians never °
that they say 13 “

tine of an gor Park to the Present Daye liv the Worst he was ‘ready to form a commercial treaty Dr. Barth was introduced to the sul-|-hostile te cach other and bent ¢*  , tribes, heart, Is it a.friond - es home to éyery:| shein® of the next pl snouneing. bis hey emoosh,” or bad “dog.” “It “would seem
x Machraiey M ichdant tae baat ge a ela with the Queen of England, and engage to | tun, who saluted the traveller, gud) imme-| hover around, ‘waiting for ar aa ‘plunder, | travellers like our” i, a foo? Are they ‘pre “afore re aing Me en died hon that Nature does ‘not encourage ‘profan-
paunin . don; , : ni , ous . . . . . . . her’ ‘ we cart : . ! stripped naked, and ti hen the ature does ne Oy F- a
Reberis. 1361” protect British merchants and: travellers. | diately entered into a conversation about'| becoming rich at another” . opportunity oft of plunderers” ; au wr stripy , Ui : ; noe between natare

: y pportunity l ars” pelves, ov are they a body | fou ‘post famished, havi ity—showing the differe ae

» expense: During | the same
weolings; and bdth prepare for action.”| ‘twent,
sa

Both parties are subjects,of | :

ue been
‘ours Without food. He had

and cultivation.

LEN STS FEN T SO I TS Te NEE ARE GS De MTOR PESTS SEE

eAdle t 8 oN SATU ORO RN

BDF LAT Lats Ed

suvarnsumisensomastihtemesmt

GSAS LRA RRS

Wanxton Destruction or Proventy.—
The organ of destructiveness must be cnor-
mously developed, or in an inordinately ex-
cited stato, among the Missouri rebels by
recent accounts from that troubled regions,
The Northern Missouri Railroad, or the
section bet¥cen Warrentown and Hudson,
has been sndered completely useless ; the
track has deen torn up, rails broken and bent,

sons, it would be the right and duty of this
Cavermnent to detain them.”

If England, as many, believe, is desirous
of a rupture with us, is determined to make
or find acasus bell’, she will not be satistied;
but if, as we trust, she aims to maintain
peaceful relations with us, the “note” will

—— Tho London papers appear as full of
vain conjectures and idle surmises relative to
the San Jacinto affair, as papers on this side
of tho Atlantic ; and tho former have no het-
tor foundation whereupon to base their decla-
rations than the latter. In other words, both
have been wrapped in an Egyptian darkness,
as to Governmental views, or contemplated

«Then liberty meant something. Then lib-
erty, indeperidence, freedom, were in ey

man’s mouth. They were the sounds at
which they rallied, and under which they
foughtand bled. They were the words which
‘encouraged and cheered them through their
hunger, and nakedness, and fatigue, in cold
and in heat. The word slavery then filled
their hearts with horror, They fought be-
cause -they would not be slaves. Those
whom liberty bas cost nothing, do not know

young men have been prepared as teachers,
and #g such, are actively employed in differ-
ent parts of the Province. There is also a
Sabbath School, attended by ninety pupils.
The settlement contains 1,000 inhabitants,
active and intelligent, sober-and industrious.
We understand, from reliable authority, that
it has been a rale in this settlement, that no
clothing nor provisions of any kind should be
received. Although many landed here,
stripped of every thing but life and health,

LETTERS AND ESSAYS.

COLORED TOWNSHIP AT BUXTON, 0. W,

nr

BY WM, WATKINS,

Asyw Annon, Mich, Dec. 18, 1861.
Tt is a favorite dogma of slaveholters and
their craven apologists, that “negroes can’t
take care of themselyes.”” Their Jaw, their
science, their ethics, their theology, and their

prove acceptable and satisfactory. Ine re-

intentions. Much of the uneasiness that has

gard to this, we shall not be kept long in

how to prize it.

doubt.

$

tho ti, bridges, and station houses burned ;

religion, are thoroughly impregnated ‘with the

JAN, 2, 1862,

Cuaxar or Nunners, &o.—In order to
avoid all confusion, and for other reasons,
wo havo adopted a new and simpler style of
addresses, dates and numbers, with the open-
ing of the year. Dropping tho “New Sv-
ries” and “Volume” numbers, we now adopt
two styles—the first, showing the number
issued from the commencement of the year ;
and tho other, the number issue ” since the es-
tablishment of the paper. . .

The paper used to ko
although it was always pt
day—a system usual with y
journals, as it is supposed to } . sale
in distant places. Not to thaxe too many
changes at once, we have hitherto kept up
this system, but as it is wrong to thus post-
date. wo now drop it. The paper will be
printed in Boston on Wednesday afternoons,
and published on Thursday mornings. It will
be for sale at the Haytian Bureaux—in Bos-
ton and Now York, on Thursdays; and at
Windsor, C. W., on Fridays or Saturdays.
Mr. White, No. 717 Lombard street, is the
sole Agent for Philadelphia. rice at the
Eastern offices, three cents a copy ; at Wind-
sor five cents; but, if delivered by carrier,
in Boston, New York, or Philadelphia.
four cents a copy. All letters, advertise-
ments and subscriptions should be address-
ed to Boston; tothe Publisher (if on busi-
ness;) and, (if for publication,) to the Hadt-
tors of The Pine and Palm.

“ The Asricans at Home’? will be con-
cluded in Whole Number 135; while
" The History of the Revolutions of Hayti”’
will run through twenty or more numbers
still. This latter volume increases in interest
as it proceeds. Keep your files of it.
When it is printed we will begin an Histori-
cal Novel, in which the thrilling scenes of
Haytian history are depicted with vivid pow-
er by one of the most distinguished writers
of our times. As already stated, the entire
fourth page will be devoted to the Haytian
Movement and to the history, news, and re-
sources of Hayti ; and three inside columns
will be given up to advertisements—'‘just so
much and nothing more.” Every effort will
be made to inerease the interest, power and

“day,

pervaded the community, is justly attributa-
ble to the feverish excitement created, or ag-
gravated by this thoughtless course of the
Press, in its assumption of being over-wise ;
and much is chargeable to the interested self
ishness of stock-jobbers and others, who are
endeavoring “to turn a penny” hy ereating a
business confusion. Some of the papers have
declared that Mason and Slidell have been
hung—that a man-of-war has started, or soon
will be sent to carry Lord Lyous home—that
the British Ministry will declare war imme-
diately, without asking or awaiting explana: °
tions—that the British Government has de-
manded an apology, and granted our Gov-
ernment twenty-four hours within which to
make it. In fact, they teem with thousands
of as idle and incredible stories.

We rejoice at knowing that an end is about
being put to this exciting and profitless gos
sip.

On Saturday, intelligence was received
from Washington, that Government had yicld-
ed to the demands of England, and Mason
and Slidell would be given up. lowever
mortifying this may be te our pride, with
howsoever little propriety or consistency Eng-
land can make such a demand, bearing in
mind the extreme position by her taken, and
persistently maintained, through a long term
of years, in somewhat similar cases, her own
self-interest and selfishness being uppermost,
we think under existing circumstances, the
decision arrived at by our Government is the
wisest and most politic. If the principle in-
volved is recognized and honestly abided by,
in the future, on the part of Great Britain,
civilized nations in general will have cause
for gratulation at the recent occurrences,
which may lead or require her, relens rolens,
to sanction the doctrine in regard to neutral
rights, long advocated and contended for by
this country, and more recently by France.
The. National Intelligencer, in commenting
on the decision arrived at, says :-—

“Whatever may he the disappointment, if
any, at the result to which the administration
has come in seitling a question constitution-
ally devolved upon the executive branch of
the government, we are sure all will applaud
the firmness, the sincerity in which the ad-
ministration, resisting a natural tendency
impressed by the concerted drift of public
opinion in our own country, has rese>
do what it believes to be rie’

garter Of the paper. We rely on our
riends to do their utmost #2 promote its cir-

t
HVatin

“3

mises; and it enecte *

Watts, delegate to Congress from New Mex-

woe >

New Mexico.—On the 8doult., Mr.

co, introduced a bill into the House of Rep-

culverts demolished ; cnrs destroyed : the
demons of destruction seem to have had full
sway, and to have availed of thoir power to
lay waste, in every possible way, all things

pu
Is

virus of this palpable absurdity. ‘The negro,
they tell us, thrives best in servitude, his nor-
mal condition.

He must have a master, a
ardian—some onc to look after him. — It
distinctly affirmed that he does not possess

- the truth of what is above stated.

resentatives, providing for the examination of
claims arising from Indian depredations in
that ‘Territory. We trust that all such
claims as may be presented will be thoroughly
examined and rigidly scrutinized. There is
agreat deal of iniquity connected with this
class of claims; a great deal of imposition
and fraud practised by the holders of them.
If one half what we hear le true, the New
Mexican elaims, instead of presenting an ¢x-
ception to, exhibits a glaring instance of,
Wo hope
the Territorial officials will prove themselves
clear of all complicity with any of the actors,
ot participation in any of the transactions
themselves.

We see that Gov. Connelly, who was, at
one tine, thought to be Secessionally inclined,
and was most assuredly Pro-Slavery in his
proclivitics, intends exercising his inuence
to induce the Legislature of New Mexico to
repeal its slave code. ‘This may be from an
honest convietion of its injustice ; but as he
was one of the prime nvovers in getting it en-
acted, and as his former nomination te the
oflice he oceupies was, at the special session
of Congress, rejected by’ the Senate from
want of confidence in the naan, and as his re-
nomination, (through delegate Watts’s in-
fluence with the President,) is pending in
the Senate for confirma‘i-~> rn second re-

possible.

As there is seldom an evil without some
compensating good, we aro glad to find that
these outrages, and similar apprehended ones,
have aroused Gen. Halleck to institute more
stringent measures against lawless depredz-
tors. Ife has issued an order to the effect that
bridge-burners, and railroad and telegraph
destroyers, if caught, will be shot immeiliate-
ly; any one charged with these crimes will
be tried, and if pronounced guilty, be exe-
cuted ; the commanding officer of the post
uearest to the place where the damage isdone,
will cause the necessary repairs to be made,
employing for the purposo the property and
slaves of the neighboring Secessionists, and
the Secessionists themselves, if need be;
pretended Unionists withholding information
of the acts or actors, will be deemed aiders
and abettors, and proceeded against accord-
ingly ; towns and counties within which the
destruction takes place, will be held respon-
sible therefor, unless satisfactory proof be
adduced that the people were too weak to
successfully resist the action of the trespassers.

This order, if promptly and faithfully en-
forced, will soon work a reformation in that
section which has long been urgently needed,
and which can never be accomplished by any
amount of “honied words and sugared
Of the truth of this, there can be

. . . . 4g ‘et apvure Py
jection, it is not um vatural to appreuce

that he may be stimul:
course for purely selfi sh purposes.

Among the oldest
reputable residents
Watrons ; he has °
in the prosperity |
cess and well:
nearly, if not:
a close observ:
cognizance of
narrowly wat
leaders, an?! t
pulle-
ly

veal.
relay’s ”
.F

ted. co adopt his present

, best known, and most
of that Territory, is 5. B.
‘ng taken a great interest
of that region, and the sue-
being of its inhabitants; for
quite, a generation he has been
er of passing events, has taken
public men and measures, has
ched the doings of political
he intrigues 6f partisan wire-
‘iss and he has at all times unhesitating-
and openly deprecated whatever or who-
in his opinion, was injurious to the
Tn a leae fram him, hearing

phrases.”’
HEA ag of 0

gf pinion, among those at all
conversant with th
conversant V character and general con-

duet of the class ‘ho glory in the name of
“Border Rufians,

——'The N. Y.

2<e>

Ls Terald is out again in zs
usual Christian Spit (for it has much to
aay of late, in a pious strain,) against
Gen. Phelps and © get) Phillips, having

r the spac :
rested for the spay op twenty-four hours since
the triumphant

those qualities which are a sine qua non to
the development of the entire man. It is
said that he is deficient in judgment, in fore-
thought, in the ability to plan and to exe-
cute, and that, left to himself, thrown uppn
his own resources and responsibilities, he will,
sooner or later, relapse into barbarism.
Our maligners roll these premises as a
sweet morsel under their veracious(?) tongues,
and jump with all the dexterity of the most
accomplished acrobat, to the conclusion that
those who insist upon having us treated, in
all respects, as men, are practising a philoso-
phy in direct hostility to the Divine economy,
and forcing us into an uncongenial clement,
one for which we have no natural adaptation,
and in which we must inevitably wither, droop,
and die.
But the facts, the facts! What are the
facts? Vor facts, stubborn and immutable,
are worth more than theories, unless the latter
are supported by the former.
It is safe to affirm that the human race is
a unit—that man is the same in all ages.
He may differ in certain phenomenal aspects,
under the modifying play of certain circum: ;
stances; but in no respect are the laws of’
his being altered or annulled. One speci-
men of a fully developed negro, a pure ne-
gro, (none of your half-and-half arrange-
ments, ) is sufficient to prove the title of the
whole race to equal rights as men. It will
not do to argue that such a negro is an ex-
ception, and proves nothing. The most learn-
ed monkey cannot make a mathematician,
nor can the wisest and most wonderful ele-
phant be taught to build a steamboat, or to
command an army. No such exceptions can
be found among the race, for the simple
reason that they do not, and cannot, exist.
But we have it in our power to ‘proudly
point out instances among negroes, as de-
monstrations of the absurdity of the domina of
our inherent inferiority, and our inability to
take care of ourselves. Whatever the white
man has done, the black man has done.
Whatever the white man can do, the black
man ean do. We have among us farmers
and philosophers, lawyers and linguists, poets

s
own complete

¢

“+, giscomfiture thereby.
‘ Abolitionists,
edly told, dare,

who, we haye been re-
, © anything to fe
designs, and a:

somplish th °
suddenly bevo,

«,
to endorse, wit

or

cess of the latter, and its
The We have orators, editors, physicians, mer-

« helps’s| heads, and the same number of horns! Wo
0. THap| work in coal, wood, iron, gold, brass, silver,

and preachers, musicians and mathematicians.

chants, all sorts of mechanics; and, as though
to leave no doubt of the fact of our identity
with our Anglo-Saxon brethren, we have
even black slaveholders among us—yes, the
‘real “critter” himself; the same number of

Jand steel. We eat the same kind of food,
-and we.drink the same kind of drink. Our
vices, as well as our virtues, prove who we
~hat we a.e and what we ought to be.

settlement during nine years.

trades are liberally represented among them.
LU

apparently much to their edification. I never
addressed an audience with whom I was more

they were only placed in a way to support
themselves, and told that their own right ann
must do the rest. ‘The health and morals of
the settlers are good; there hag been no case
of crime during the last year. Nothing that
intoxicates is made or sold in the settlement,
and not a drunken man has been seen in the
The various

They have also several mills, factories, etc.
I lectured to these people in their church,

delighted.

Now, these persons have had more to contend
against, both in the States and in the Canadas,
than any community of white men to be found
on God’s green earth. When Mr. King was
negotiating for the lands for their settlement,
the whites in the neighborhood became horti-

M P
bly afraid. The ‘‘abomination of desolation”’

u

I served in the Revolution, in General

Washington’s army, three years under one
enlistment.
balls, like hail, were flying all around me.
The man standing next to me was shot by
my side—his blo
which I wore for weeks.
except that which runs in my veins, was shed
for liberty.
instantly in the Revolution. Liberty is dear
to my heart; I cannot endure the thought
that my countrymen should be slaves.

I have stood in -hattle where
spouted upon my clothes,”
My nearest blood,
My only brother was shot dead

*« When stationed in the State of Rhode

Island, the regiment to which I belonged «
was once ordered to what was called a fank-~
ing position,—that is, upon a place which
the enemy must pass in order to come round
in our rear, to drive us from the fort. This

ass was every thing, both to them and to
s; of course, it was a post of imminent

was coming. They raved and swore, andj danger. They attacked us with great fury,
wrote threatening letters. But the negroes| but were repulsed. -They reinforced, and

came, and conquered. To-day, I point them | a
out to the libellers of our oppressed people,
as evidence of the equality of the race.
When in the cotton fields, the rice fields and

sugar plantations of our Barbary States, they

t

termination, and again
Againthey reinforced, and attacked us the

ttacked us again, with more vigor and de-
were repulsed.

hird time, with the most desperate courage

and resolution, but.a third time were re-

loomed up in the world’s horizon, a huge,| pulsed. The contest was fearful. Our po-
grim, black monument of the brutality and | sition was hotly disputed and as hotly main-
barbarism of American civilization, and the | tained.

infidelity and atheism of American Chris-
tianity! ‘To-day they hold themselves up as
Nature’s noblemen; and as the wilderness
resounds with their well-directed blows, and
the fire-side sparkles with the cheerful smiles
of their wives and little ones, they tell a
simple, truthful story of their rights, which
will be heard, at this critical hour, above the
din of contending armics. ‘‘Can’t take care
of themselves !”’

T cannot close this hasty sketch without
returning my thanks to Rev. Wm. King,
Mr. George Hatter, and Mr. Thomas String-
er, for many manifestations of kindness. In
a few days I shall again grasp them by the
hand.

COLORED AMERIOAN PATRIOTISM.

“The Loyalty and Devotion ot Colored
Americans in the Revolution and War of
1812,” is the title of a tract of 24 pages, just
issued by R. F. Walleut, Anti-Slavery Rooms
221 Washington street, Boston. With the
permission of the publisher, we republish it.

i

t

PATRIOTISM OF COLORED AMERICANS.
Ata Mass Convention of the colored cit-
izens of Ohio, held at Cleveland, Sept. 9th,
1852, the orator of the occasion, William H.
Day, Esq., in the course of his address, said :
*¢ Of the services and sufferings of the
colored soldiers of the Revolution,’ says one
“writer, ‘no attempt has, to our knowledge,
heen made.to preserve a record.’ This is
“Sts.true ‘Meir history is not written.
ril watered with their blood;

aatt a “serimmage”’ with an Irish-
thought that, as I was a ‘“nagur.”

Peet) See entrenre ds

yas

me time previously.

Gen. Pope, on the 18th ult., made a
forced march against the rebels, 2200 strong,
in Clinton and Henry counties, Mo; where-
upon the latter beat a precipitate retreat
towards Rose Hill, Johnson county ; leaving
behind, their arms, baggage, munitions, pa-
pers, Xc., all of which were seized by Gen.
Pope, who still continued in pursuit of the
enemy, as far as Johnson, Bates county,
where they scattered in all directions, the
main portion flecing south. Gen. Pope
again pushed on to within 15 miles of Osce-
ola, (where Price has 8000 troops,) and
captured 150 rebels, with all their baggave,
stores, &c. Additional squads taken, aug.
mented the number of prisoners to 800.

On the evening of the 18th ult., another
portion of Gen. Pope's force, under the com-
mand of Col. Davis, surprised a sceond rebel
camp, near Milford, Mo., and took the whole,
1500 strong, prisoners; among them were
one Lieut-Colonel, two Colonels, and 17 Cap-
tains ; at the same time were captured, 1000
stand of arms, 1000 horses, 65 wagons, and
a large quantity of baggage, tents, and sup-
plies. The Unionists lost two killed and
eight wounded; the rebel logs was not ascer-
tained.

Near Glasgow, Mo., two tons of gunpow-
der have been secured, which were found
cachéd (or buried) on Claib. Jackson’s farm.
By later Missouri intelligence, the gencral
summing up of our recent successes, shows
as follows; viz: the capture of 2500 rebels,
izluding 70 commissioned officers; 1200
horses £1 moles ; 1100 stand of arms ; 100
negroes; I? tons of gunpowder, and a vast
amount of camp equipage and commissary
stores. ‘The entire loss in our side, in killed
and wounded, is stated at 4".

On the 20th ult, a brisk 17ht took place
near Drainsville, in the vicinity of Washing-
ton, between the rebels, consisting of 1c!"

*monts, with a batttery of artillery, and a

reg. _  rarty under Gen. Ord, consisting of
foraging,» tat regiment of Ponnaylya-

his brigade, thn , ‘on’s battery of four guna.
nia Rifles, and Has. soup and a half, the

After a contest of ani -, ae
: : n of Fairfax
tebels retrented in the directt..
snd har-

the principics VL pluie rT
transaction.”

.

“The law of nations as -
preted by our Governmer
new sanction, though at th.
of some national sensibilities
proportionate activity by the tempuray ..
acerbations of our civil feuds. he latter,
let us remember, are but fora day. ‘The
law of nations is for all time.”

twee

We have carefully perused the correspon-
dence between the United States and British
Governments, growing out of Capt. Wilkes’s
procedure in the Mason Slidell capture. ‘The
Sceretary of State has argued the case aini-
rably, perhaps justly, for Great Britain ;
stating, however, that the doctrine advocated
is sound American doctrine, which has been
maintained and contended for by the Cnited
States, for more than half a century. We
had supposed that some great principle, which
Fugland, heretofore, has not acknowledged,
was now about being recognized, and firmly
established.

But, if we read aright, in this, we are mis-
taken, and the decision arrived at does little
more than dispose of this isolated case; the
great question, so long pending,
the nature and extent of neutral rights in

relative to

peace as well as in war, stil remaining un-
settled unless by implication. Mr,
treats the question under five heads ; four of
which he determines in our favor, and the
fifth against us, thereby vitiating the whole
prior proceedings, and rendering it obligatory

Scward

upon us fo return the captured persons.
Te decides that the persons and dispatches
were contraband ;—that Captain Wilkes
night lawfully stop and search tho ‘rent ;—
that he did lawfully, and properly de so ;—
that finding “thé contraband persons on board,
he had a right to capture thom; du¢ that he
did not exercise the right to capture in the
manner allowed and recognized hy the law
SJnstead of taking out the con-:
‘Is, he should have carried or sent the

¢ nations.
mn

traban ; ee
contents into port for adjudication.

vessel and o
. reo. fre he decision is, if;
The fair inferon’® from the decision is, if

Capt. Wilkes had ines individual
injury upon a hundred or ee lL, eM _
« rag in

snmoded, or inflicted an

WAU) tucy were cee ig
hands, and considerable anxiety is felt as
the way they will play it. ‘They have worked
the people up to Secession heat by a load of
grievances, of which the General Government
must “bear the censure, and thus they are
prepared to avail themselves of any emer-
gency that may suddenly arise, and turn it
to theiv own advantage. A) few months
since, the Mexiean people were loyal to a
man, and the Secession feeling was confined
to afew heartless politicians ; but now dis-
satisfaction and distrust are spreading fay
and wide, and complaints loud and deep are
heard on every side.

The end of all this is shrouded in dark-
ness but those whe Akow — these people
tremble for the result, when they look on
what is passing around them, and judge hy
the past what the future may bring forth.”

>

We are constantly being told, (and
thereby cajoled,) hy one official after anoth-
er, week following week, that this is to be a
short war, So in substance, if not actual
phraseology, has said the Sceretary of War,
the Seeretary of State, the recognized Com-
mander-in-ehief, and the President himself.
“One has confidently declared that the troops
would be enabled to join in the Christmas
gambols at home ; another, that they would
there participate in the joyous greetings of
the incoming year; another that the end
would certainly be prior to the rigors of win-
ter setting in, [t has been oracularly an-
nounced, that astounding events would be
mado manifest within a given time, already
past, said events still remaining undeveloped;
and it has also been in a seer-like manner

predicted, that tho rebellion would be erushed
out utterly and forever, in’ the space of so
many designated days. ‘The present. con-
dition and aspect of affhirs leads us ine the
language of other times to give the warning
ery, ‘Beware of false prophets.”
Notwithstanding all tho flattering predic.
tions, recent advices from Washington state
that an order has been issued from the Ord:
nance Department to the largest Chree ean-

Me ew ey eee ou UCP

in a later issue, states
that Win. Lloyd ison, the notorfous abo-
ditionist, is annou. 41 to deliver a lecture on
the War, at the Coder Institute, on ‘Tues-
day evening, Janully Tth. Having been
thwarted in its base’ itempt to create a riot
on the occasion of <j. Phillips’ speaking,
covert eflorts will be
h Mr. Garrison ; and
pare willing and de-
iis views aright, and

forth by his onenien|
proaching opportunity !o listen to his u

the same pa,

we presume none bux
mide to interfere \w
we trust that those wh}
sirous to understand
learn his sentiments a

they actually are, in-
e distorted and put
will avail of the ap-

stead of as they may?

tter-

anees, §

Congressman ily, having been ex-
changed for Mr. Patikner, has arrived at
Washington, and furt‘hes the papers with a
long and interesting sjfount of his capture
and imprisonment. [| has a list of 2,700
Unionists, held by tlotrebels as prisoners.
Immediately after his “apture, he narrowly
esexped having his bra 's blowed out hy a
drautken Colonel, nam Cash. He thinks
adecp Union feeling gervades Richmond,
and that, should our arry be within ten miles
of tho city, the Nationalflag would Ve hung
from, hundreds of winlows. Very likely ;
and on the following dy, should we be ro-
pulsed, the Confederate lg would again sup-
plant it, and thus vrce crsa during the con-
tinwance of the contes, according as_ the
Rebels or Unionists for, 1c time gain the as-
{ §

4
Keoxomican.— Tt elity authorities of New
Orleans have orderecithe Street Commis-
sioners to take down, ‘nd safely pack away,
for future use, all the treet lamps made of
copper,

condeney.

——Cen. Roseerars, in his speech at Cin-
einnalt_a short time skee, remarked he did
not believe that the ‘festern section of Vir-
ginia would ever havl given in to secession,

* hea
1, yez a smart...

we! Yez a match tor
fr

ing words .
how! Indade ,
any man of yer size
{t is not, however, my intention to dis-
prove by logical argument, the absurd theory
to which T have adverted, but to call atten-
tion to a living, tangible demonstration of its
incorreetness. Such a demonstration we
have in the establishment, growth, and pres-
ent condition of a settlement of fugitive slaves
in the township of Buxton, GC. W., a settle-
ment coneerning which much has been said
and written. Tet us look at the naked, un-
varnished faets, and let us reflect that the
persons who compose this settlement are refu-
gees from the horrors and iniquities of sla-
very—American slavery. The ash and
the ivon have drank their blood. Both
Church and State have hurled their pai-
soned arrows at their bleeding hearts. ‘Che
system of which they have been the vie-
tims cannot be deseribed. [will be par-
doned if E indulge in’ a simile more
truthful than poetical. Slavery is like an
ald goose, which cuts everything before it,
and kills everything behind it, Thank God!
it’s time is short.
This settlement was formed in 18-9, for
the purpose of providing colored persons in
Canada with homes. It was incorporated by
Act of Parliament in 1850. It contains
about eighteen square miles of country, in
the township of Buxton, and County of ent,
Canada West. ‘The land was purchased
from the Government, by Rey. Wm. King
of Louisiana, (formerly a slaveholder,) at a
coxt of SL8,000. It is divided into farms
of fifty aeres each, with a road. sixty-six feet
wide, running past each firm. ‘The houses,
which are mostly built of round or hewed
logs, ave set ata short distance from the road,
with a prass plat in front, and the garden and
yard enclosed with a neat and substantial
fence. Some of tho early settlers have good
frame houses, well furnished. Most of them
are whitewashed, and covered partly withthe
grape vine. ‘This gives to the dwellings a
neat and beautiful appearance. ‘The settlers
have cleared from ten to thirty aeres of land,
built their houses, and provided their own
farming implements, without “taking the hat
around.’’ Some whom [ visited farm 100,
and some 150 acres. Their farms are as well
cultivated as any I saw in the West. Some
who were fugitives when they eame into

> Tt rests with their bores

here trod a Decatur... .
Barry, ina calm and silence broken only by
the voice of the man of God—We commit
this body to the deep ;’ and the plunge and
the ripples passing, the sea has closed over
their memory forever, Ah! we have waited
on shore and have scen the circle of that rip-
ple. We know, at least, where they went
down ; and so much, to-day, we come to re-
cord,

“We have had in Ohio, until very recently,

and if they are living, have here now, a few
colored men who hate thus connected us with
the past. T have been told of one, recently, in
the southern portion of the State.

“Another, of whom we all know, has resid-
ed, for many years, near Urbana, Champagn
county. Ile was invited to, and expected
at, this meeting. Father Stanup (as he is fa-
miliarly called) has lived to a good old age.

Tle has been afflicted with recent sickness, and
it may have prostrated him permanently. The
frosts of a hundred winters will shrivel any
oak ; the blasts of a century will try any vie
tality, The aged soldier must soon die. O,
that liberty, for which he fought, might be be-
queathed to his descendants! The reacization
of that idea would smooth his dying pillow,
and make the transit from this to another
sphere a pleasant passage. Lam eredibly
informed, that the age of Mr. Stanup is one
hundred and nine ; that he was with General
Washington ; and that his position, in this
respect, has heen recognized by officers of |
the Goverment.”

Further on, Mr. Day said :—“T think we
have demonstrated this point, that if colored
people are among your Pompeys, and Cuffees,
and Unele ‘Toms, they are also among your
heroes. ‘They have been on Lakes Erie and
Champlain, upon the Mediterranean, in
Florida with the Creeks, at Schuylkill, at
lliekory Ground, at New Orleans, at Horse
Shoe Bend, and at Pensacola. The presenee
of some of them here tceday is a living rebuke
to this land.”

Addvessing the large crowd of white citi-
zens present, Mr. Day  said:—We ean be,
as we always been faithful subjects, powerful
allies, as the documents read here to-day
prove ; an enemy in your midst, we would
be more powerful still, We ask for liberty;
liberty here—liberty on the Chalmette Plains
—liberty wherever floats the American flag.
We demand for the sons of the men who
fought tor you, equal privileges. We bring
to you, to-day, the tears of our fathers, —each
tear isa velume, and speaks to you. To
you, then, we appeal. We poiitt you to
their blood, sprinkled upon your door-posts
in your political midnight, that the Testroy-

v

We take you

I affirm.
the same situation.
groes, fighting for our liberty and indepen-
dence,—not awhite man among them but
the officers, —stationed in this same dangerous
and res

unfaithful, or given way before the enemy,
all would have been lost.
succession were they attacked, with most
desperate valor and fury, by well disciplined
and veteran troops, and three times did
successfully repel the assault, and thus pre-
serve ourarmy from capture. They fought

2} color st." *”

** But T have another object in view in

stating these facts. 1 would not be trampet-

ng my ownacts ; the only reason why I

have named myself in connection with this

ransaction is to show that I know whereof
There was a Wack regiment in
Yes, a regiment of ne-

nsible position. Had they been

Three times in
they

though the war. They were brave, bardy
troops. They helped to gain our liberty and
independence.

**Now, the war is over, our freedom is
gsined—what is to be done with these colored
seldiers, who have shed their best blood in its
defence? Must they be sent off out of the
country, because they are black? or must
they be sent back into slavery, now they
have risked their lives and shed their blood
to secure the freedom of their masters? I
ask, what became of these noble colored
soldiers? Many of. them, I fear, were ta-
ken back to the South, and doomed to the
fetter and the chain.

“« And why is it, that the colored inhabi-
tants of onr nation, born in this country,
and entitled to all the rights of freemen, are
held inslavery? Why, but because they are
black? [have often thought that, should
God see fit, by a miracle, to change their
~*~ and ive their fea-
ao ~. of the

es, slavery would not conunue a year.
Nv, you would then go and abolish it with
the,sword, if it were not speedily done s
without. But is it a suitable cause for -#
making men slaves, because God has given’
them such acolor, such hair and such features,

as he saw fit?”
[To BE CoNTINUED.]

LETTER FROM E. R. WALKER.

At ReEcBEN CLARR’s,:
NEAR CaRTNAGENA, Mercer Co., Ohio, }
December 3, 186].
Correspondence of The Pine and Palm.

Mr, Redpath—Dear Sir: T sit down to
write you a few items in regard to the early
settlement and origin of this place, Ke.
From all that I can learn of old settlers, this
colony was settled or founded, in 1837, by
that great benefactor of the colored race,
Augustus Watles, who labored in his day
to elevate the colored people and place them
in an independent position as free men and
women, just as THaytian emigrationists are do-
ing now. Many ignorant persons opposed
Mr, Watles’ plan, but the rising generation
are doing justice to Mr. Watles” memory.
So it will be with the men now acting in
this gréat enterprise. The emigration move-
ment will be an epoch in tho history of the
colored American race.

As U entered this  farfamed Mercer
settlement from the North, my knapsack
on my back, I met many dark faces, some
on horseback, and others with — teams,
going to Celina, the county seat, to pay
tux. As I neared the town I eame to
three men of unmistakable African descent
building a bridge. I was kindly invited to
stop and rest, which invitation I accepted.
After a moment's conversation, they sur
mised that T was the person who was to aa-
dress the people of the town that night.
These three gentlemen,—H. Hurd, W.
Kendall, and Mr. Wright,—were substantial
well-to-do farmers, who, true to the instincts
of their race, extended their hospitalitics,
which T gratefully accepted ; taking tea with

Mr. Turd, and lodging with Mr. Wright.
This place contains many beautiful farms,
with Jarge and well-finished houses, belonging
mostly to colored people. mM
post office Isaw the reom full of young
farmers, calling for their letters, and other
mail matters.

As [entered the

This settlement contains five churches,—

two Baptist, two Wesleyan Methodist, and
an A. M. E. Chureh—five school districts,

mumbering from 40 up to as high as 75

seholars.

This upper settlement has one district and

one chureh. T have held three meetings here,

Court House, leaving two enissona a.
nesses, 1 quantity of arms, ‘blankets, gre.
coats, Ke. ‘The enemy’s loss, in killed and

former was Col. Taylor of Irankfort, Ken-
tacky. Our loss is stated to be 6 killed
avd 6 wounded. Cen. Ord returned to
camp in tho evening, with 50 wagon loads of
forage. A fow prisonora brought in, aro do-
scribed as ragged and filthy ; thoy report tho
rebel ariny in 8 deplorable condition, for the
want of suitable clothing and food, and tho
general prevalence of discontent among tho
soldiers. §

—The Union Army in Kentucky, con-
sists of 160,000 ion, under the command of

oat

wounded, is estimated at 150; among tho |

and had taken possession of ar
the Trent and her cargo, there had :

: . ‘as
, "ey If not, indecd, a removal of all ,

Seen les:
te.

H ca . . . .
“© complaint against him.
chuse, 01 : .
"1 ’ “bstantially right, he, purtly
‘Though ge. ‘
5 ‘ erred in mode, and there.

vu

through kindliness, '
5 hy advantage that
fore, we must loso allo 1
. ; to ous from
might otherwise havo accrucn

the capture.

Kngland demanded not only a_ surrende,
of the prisoners, but a suitable apology.
Will sho consider Secretary Soward’s ‘note’
at all, or sufliciently «~~ logetio ?
of the opportunity to

He ave
Wg Up certarr

Gen. Don. Carlos Busll,

3

t

te

‘ads, for the next Quelve months,

by, sleg 7 H

Iso just been made for immer

WVE a.

uu ‘ns, shot, shell, &e.

tities of au. nrospe
hb it)

havo a glorious ,
“= ¢

_ ahead !

weeey

a Moot
——-Mr. Stevens, (. ‘

sylvania,) in the course af a
laya since, remarked (what we te.

. ia)

LP believe that the seeessy

Po a

a{ would rise a,

true
Todt

‘romps from there.
“ance of loyalty there

i ae ; not} we withdrew our . ’
very agreeable reminisces. ee ivvo 3
y 8 nisce! ia} not believe in the sem,
unqualifiedly ‘that if the sa, “the »
oo. . aon} Or that even that semblanee
required the detention of tho . lnyj ,
_ pers | a day in the absenee of the army.

non foundries in— the country, to manufie-
ture to thoiy utmost caeity, L0-ineh colum-
Contracts
Ise quan.
Wo thus

from Penn. | following corrections—viz, : in’ the second
t hate a few
is sadly
“onists

°
-wain to-morrow in Maryland, 1

‘would continue ing 150,000 pounds; 400,000 pounds

if but moderate prosttion had been aflorded;
and that the chief cise for oceupying that
seetion was to allay the fears of tho Unionists,
excited by the coaduct of the secessionists,

(woe >
Cornecrions.—In the letter from Win. Ih.
Walker, printed on the third page of our last
number, ouf readers will pleaso make the

.| line of P.S., substitute actually for literally,
and in the fourth line from the bottom, re-
matn for remove,

om}

——By the steamtug Atlantic, at New
yp vark from Port Royal, 8. C., has heen re-
eviven fom the U. 8. Govermment-shippers
the first edi#ignment of sea-igland cotton, be-

Canada, without one cent, ave living on ex-
cellent farms, cleared and paid: for by them-
selves, CU may mention Mr. George Hatter,
who owns and farms 150 acres, Green Due,
Henry R. Thomas, Isaac Riley, and a num-
ber of others, all of whom farm 100° acres,
and nore, ‘Thomas W. Stringer and A.D.
Shadd, are excellent and extensive farmers.
They are also counsellors, and are very highly
esteemed. ‘The lands are well adapted to
pasture, and some good horses are raised by
tho settlers, ‘The principal crop is wheat,
but Indian corn, peas, oats and barley, grow
well. ‘The settlers have paid, without any
assistance, about $10,000 for their lands, the
price charged them per acre being $2.50, the
actual cost lo the first buyers. In two or
three years they expect to pay for the whole.

additional await siipnient.

There are two good sebools, a male and fe-

ing Angel might pass over.
to their sepulehres, to see the bond of honor
between you and them kept, on their part,
faithfully, even until death.”

The following extracts from an addreas de-
livered, in US42, before the Congregational
and Presbyterian Anti-Slavery Sueiety, at
Franeestown, N. 11, by Dr. Harris, a Rev-
olutionary veteran, will be -read with great
miterest. ;—

* T sympathize deeply,”? said Dr. ITarris,
“in the objects of this Society. fought,
my hearers, for the liberty whieh you enjoy,
Tt surprises me that every man dees not ral:
ly at the sound of liberty, and array himself
with those who are lnboring to abotish slavery
in our country, ‘The very mention of it
warms the bloud in my veins, and,-old as 1
an, makes me feel something of the spirit and

and as our friends say, with fine success ;
thirty were present the first night, many of ”
them the heads of large families. Mr. R.

a thousan
of burden; but Night—is a ministering an-
gel that cools with its dewy breath the toil
heated brow ; and, like the Roman sisterhood,

.

male, attended by £20 pupils Some of the

impulses of “76.

Clark's family consists of 9 persons; Mr.
kK. Durant’s of 10; Mr. B. Darant’# of 8
persons. These men are of the bone and
sinew of the place, being rich farmers and
having outgrown the shackles their fathers
wore, are becoming restive, and askiu
themselves the question, “What shall they do
to place their children beyond the over

shadowing intluences of American slavery?”

Yours, Xc., KE. R. Wangs.

—Day, panting with heat, and laden with

cares, toils onwand like a beast

stoops down to bathe the prilgrim’s feet,

’ Peaco on Earth.

“Peace on Earth!” the angels sang,
When t> Bethlehem descending
From the hour these accents ming
Through the plains of Palestine,
Ever have the words divine
Reen from pole te pole extending.

“Give us light,” the nations prayed,
Groping for a guide to lead then;
Christ, in lustrous rokes arrayed,
Asked that he alone might be,
Saviour of humanity—
Skephend doth to guide and feed chem.

“Peace on Earth!’ the angels chant,
For Jehovah hath consented!
Fiends nor pangs ean Jesus daunt,
For he sees man’s lost estate,
And his tove for man is great,
And God’s wrath Hg hath relented!

“Give us light!” Since Jesus died,
Ever have the wayward nations—
Rebels to the Crucified,
War-distracted, tempest-tossed,
Darkness-wrippol, with compass lost,
Found their souls in false reladions.

“Peace on Earth!” the angels say,
As the sob of man’s great sadness
Rises heavenwanl night and day:
Follow Christ and his commands :
Thus shall sorrow in your lands
Change to endless love and gladness.

ive us light!’ Thou Holy One,
Whom the Father sent to teach us,
Aid us till our nice is run:
Till our sins are distanced far,
Ever be the Heavenly Star,
Through whose rays God's
reach us.
Ma pen, Mass.

AWAY DOW) SOUTH IN DIXIE.

Jove may

x

ae
aN

ee:

—The anthor of the subjoined article, whilst
on a dusiness tour to the South, a year ago, deci.
ded, on invitation, to visita highly cultivated and
intellicent eentleman, with whom and “his man
Jim,” he had some winters previously travelled
For his greater convenience, he, on th’s occasion,
bired a horse and a negro driver called Scip, and
started from Georgetown, S. C., for his friend’s
plantation; cn nearing which, they were met by
“Jim,” wher the following collcquy took place:

‘“Hallodar!’ said Scipio to the driver. “Am
you Cannel [———'s man?’

“Yas, Lis cat.” he replied ,

“Halo, Jim,” [said. “How do you do? I’m

giad to see you.” . 5

“Lor bress me, massa K——, am dat you?” ex-
claimed the astonished nezro, hastiiv opening the
carriaze door and coming tome. “Whar did you
cum from? ['se mighty glad to sce you;” at the
same time giving my hand a hearty shaking. I

must here sas, in justice to the repatation of
i a, that no respectatic Carolinian
hands with a black man, un-
less ck happens to be tree. ;

“f thoasht [ wouldn't wait fur you,” [ replied.

FREEMASONRY.
“Jim, p,’ I said, seeing that the dar-
kies had taken no notice of cach other.

“How d've do, Scipio 2” said Jim, extending his
hand to him. <A look of singular intelligence
passed over the faces of the two negroes, as their

stizht that none bat a close olserver would have de-
tected it, bat sume words that Scip had previously
Jez drop, put me on the alert, and I felt sure it had
a hidden significance.
“Won't you getinto de carriage, massa?” in-
quired Jim.
“No, thank vou, Jim. I'll ride on with Scip.
Onr horse is jaded, and you had better go ahead.”
A Jim moanted the driver's scat, turned the car-
iace, and drove off ata brisk pace, to announce
our coming at the plantation, while Scip and I rode
on at a slow gait.
“Seip, did you know Jim Vefore?” I asked.
“Neber seed him afore, masza, but hab hearn ob
im.” .
“How isit that vou have lived in
for five vears, and ,

yon never have °
i Peak 2 Ly seme anseeose, BUTE 1100002,

Georgetown

hands met; it vanished in an instant, and was so,

bBatied,

| he military skill; and they ave fully atte ta cape
with the whites,
[The negio whem EF call Scipio, on the day when
Major Andersen evacnated Fort Moulurie, and be-
‘Yore he or PKnew of thar event, which secall Soak
PCarolina ina blaze, foretold to me the breaking
Sontef this wardn Charleston Harbor, and as cote
tidently predicted that it wenld reenlt in the free:
idonret the slaves!
| The Knowledge of this organization U acquired
fdv waining the confidence of some of the blacks,
i who knew me to be a Northern aan, and supposed
i Lsympathized with then. Mavi seqiired: if in
j dhat manner, LE could not) communicate it: bat
|
!

now, When our treaps have lvuded in South Carve-

lina, and ats existence is sure Co be speedily devel-
j oped, no harm can rv ut froin this annothcenent.
{The fact of its existing is not positively huown,
{
|
|

i
(for the Diack is more subde and catty than amy:
ithing human.) butis suspected by nany of the

whites: the more moderate ef whom are disposed |

to ward aff the impending blow by some system of
eradual emaneipation—declaring all black children
born after a certain date free—or by some other
action that will pacify and keep down the. shives.
These persons however, are bata sid) minority,
and pessess no poli power, and the South is
rushing blindly on to a catastrophe, which, if not
averted by the action of oar Government, will
make the horrers of San Pominge and the French
Revolution grow pale in history.

Esay the action of our Goverment, for with
itrests the responsibility. Wiat the black wants is
freedom, Give him that, and he will have no ine
centive to insurrection. If emancipation is pre-
Claimed at the head ef our armics, emancipation
for all-—contiseation for the slaves ‘ot rebels, com:
pensation for the slaves of loyal ciiizens—the blacks
will rush to the aid of onr troaps, the avenging
Aneel Wi pass over the hemes of the inany trie
and loval men, who are still leftar the south, and
the thanderbolts of dtis war will fall. only—where
they should fal—on the heads of Dlood-stained
authors. If this is not done, after we have put
down the whites, we shall have to meet me blacks,
and after we have waded Knce-deep in the blood of
both, we shall end the war where it began, but with
the South desolated by tire and: sword, the North
impoverished and loaded down with an cverhweting
deht, and our osee proud, happy, and glorious
country, the by-word and scorn ot tie whole civi-

\
i lized world. . .
) Dhave all my dite long, been a true friend to the

ySouth. My connections, my interests, and ny
: sympathies, are all there, and there are those now
in the ranks of this rebellion, Who wae of my own
| hlood; but E say, and would to God that every
lover of his country would say it with me: | Make
no peace with it, until Slavery is exterminated.
' Slavery is its very bones, marrow, at life-blood,
and you cannot pur it down till you have destroyed
that accursed institution. Ifa miserable peace is
L patched wp before a deathestroke is civen to sta-
‘very, it will gather new strength, aud drive freedom
‘from this country forever. [nthe nature of things:
i canmes exist in the
ty. Then, let every inan who loves his country,
determine that
ty vears, it shall uot end until this root of all onr
political evils is weeded out forever?

ee toe, a

Tur Atiaxtic Monxtuny—A Magazine of
Lirerature, Art and Politics. Boston : Ticknor &
Fiells. The number for the opening year, com.

-mencing a new volume, (a suitable time, reader,
(for beginning or renewing your subscription,)
imakes its appearance, still proudly bearing in its
van, as mas itcontinue to for many eenerations
to cone, our beloved country’s glorious banner,
nota star obliterated, not a stripe cifaced. This
nuinber is characterized by a new feature, which
| clearly shows the Proprietors’ intention to avail of
\the advantage at their command, to associate ina
marked degree the utile with the dulce, So success-
‘fully have they accomplished this, that with great
(propriety may they, nay should they, add to their
| Magazine triad, a fourth member; viz., Science.
The utile to which we would specially call atten-
tion, is Professor Ayassiz’s opening article of a
series which will be continucd through the sueces-
| sive numbers of the present year, upon the
“Methods of Study in Natural Mistory.” Those
who are at all acquainted with Professor A.’s
‘admirable and Jucid manner of conveying infor-
mation, his happy tact in imparting instruction, in
! simplifying without belildleing science, will uced
'no urging to induce them to read these papers;
| those unacquainted should not fail to seize the
| nresent opportunity of obtaining an introduction,
band of enr: ** . divuis€ives thus afer ores «7

needa de

senefit.

Pa
ame hemisphere with lber-

this War must deeds Jast for twen- |

v, Which he will cheerfully throw open

eho Chas, Godfrey Lelaud'’s “Sunshine

Thonghe’ is well worthy of perusal; and: the Edie |

1 !
a

tor's Table is laden with good things. } | Mospay, Drermann 23—fConthoued. |
Tur Coyxrixesran Mosriny)--Devoted to | Suxate.-oAly. King offered a resolution that th:
Lit rature and National Potiey, Vol 1, No.1, | Presntent be yeqaested to insti proceedings |

Jataiary, P62, Boston: FR. Gilmore P10 Trenment |

amd Nichols, bit Washington :
Vhive dotlars per year in udvance, i
Single niuunhers |

street |
street. ‘Torts:
Postage paid by the Publishers,

Croshy

25 cents each,

As this is anew candidate for public favor, it is
no more Han just that its projectors: should: he
permitted, in their own way, to itor eur readers
what motives prompted Chem to chagage in the ene
terprise. on whit resourees Uiey rely for suceess-
fully conducting it, and what pledges they prefler
to those become its patrons. The
Prospectus thus discoursedh:

“This Continent has lately been eonvailsed by an
Upheaving so sadden ambtervible that the rehitions
ofallmen, and all classes, to cach other ure vio- ;
len disturbed, and people took about for the |
eemicnts with which to sway the storm and direct
the whiriwind,

Ata junetire so solemn and so importint, there
isd special ueed that the jutetleetual force of the |
country should be active and efficient. tt isa time |
for creat unituls to speak their thenchts boldly,
and to take position as the advance guard. To |
this end there is a special want uasupplied. [tis
thator an independent Mazazine, whied shall be
open tothe fest: intellects of the dand, and) which
shall treat the issttes presented, aud to be presented,
to the country, ina tone ne way tempered by pare
tisauship, or influenced by fear, favor, or the hope |
ofreward; which shall seize and: grapple with the
momentous subjects that the present: disturbed
state of alfairs heave tothe surface, and which
con not be Tnid aside or negiveted,.

To meet this wnat, the undersi
meneel, under the editorial charge of Charles
Godfrey Leland, Esq, the publication of a new
M “ne, devoted to Literature and National
poliey,

In polities, it will advocate, with all the force at

who may

ned have com-

its command, measures best adapted to preserve |

the oneness and integrity of these United States.
Tt will never vicld to the idea of t
this Republic, peaceably or otherwise; and it will

discuss with honesty and impartiality what must ; re

be done to savedt.e In this departinent some of
the most Cininent staresmen of the time will con-
tribute regularly to its pages. Phe carly numbers
will contain articles on this subject from Tlon.
Danicl S. Dickinson, Hon
Horace Greeley, and others of equal emincuce.

writers and ablest thinkers of this country,
Among its atuacdons will be presented, in an
early number, anew serialor American Ute, by
rad BB. Kimball, Esq., the very populace author
‘he Revelations of Wall street,” St. Leer,”
A series of Papers by Hon. Horace Greeley,
Across the Contineut, Embodying the

In literature, it, will be sustained by the best
|

ot
Ke
entitled

distinguished author's observations on the growth :

and development of the Great West, A series of
articles by the author of “Through the Cotton
States,” containing the resalt of an extended tour
in the seaboard Slave States, just privr to the
breaking ont of the war, and presenting a starding
und trathenal picture of the real condition of that
revion. No pains will be spared to render the li
erary attractions of the Continental both Drillhing
wud sabstuntial The lyrical talent of Jobin G.
Whitter, the descriptive talent of Bay Tas lor,
the cloquent pen of the Rev. Tfenry W. Bellow
are all promiscd to its pages; while mmong the
reHow contributors will be none who are not dis-
Uneuished by marked energy and originality.

The Editorial Departusent will
widition to vigorous and fearless comments on the
events of the times, Genial Gossip with the reader
on all current: topics, and also devote atuntdant
space to those racy specimens of Anrerican wit and
humor, without which there can be no pertect ex-
position of our national character, Among thos:
who will contribute regularly to this departinent
may be wentioucd the name of Charles FP. Browne,
(*Artemus Ward,”) from whom we shall present,
inthe Febrt number, the first of an entirely
new nnd original series uf Sketches of Western
Life.

The Continental will be liberal and progressive,
without yielding to the chimeras and hopes be-
youd the grasp of the ay
reflect the feclings and interests of the American
people, and to iWustrate both their ious and
humorous peentiarities. in short, no pains willbe
spared to tnuke it the representative Magazine of
the tine.”

We insert from this number, in our Dixie de-
paronent, an intertsting story, or rather narration;
as story usually implies fiction, whereas Ubis state:
ment true in cy

thee?

vonehod ©

that ¢

jing for the cmancination of the slaves of rebels

}dom of the press had been infringed.

iy disruption of |

George Bancroft, Hon. |

Pp) ports are blockaded, and that it was not a correct

embrace, in;

sand it will endeavor to |

othe courts of hav, against persons who may ha,

been arrested by excentive auchority, atid who ts

cnmain in eustody, so thata judicial examinati

tiny be had in cach case, to ascertain who shall
allowed to take the oath of allegianee, and wl
stull be detained. Laid over.—Mr, Wilson iutro-
Mnced a billie the effect that avy military or naval |
otlicer, Who shall cause the seizure and delivery up +
of a stive, shall be dechired guilty of a misdemen- ,
nor, and shall be dishonorably discharged, and for-
ever incligible to any appointinent tn the Military |
or Naval service of the United States.

Nousr.—Mr. Wilson’s resolution requesting the
Military Cominittee to report a bill for the enact
ment of an additional article of war, prohibiting
oficers in the military service of the United Stites
using forces under their command for the return of
fugitive slaves, was considered nnd passed; ayes
47, nays not counted. The punishment for viola-
lions is distnisssl Crom service.—On motion of Mr,
Vandeaver, the Committee on Territories were di-
rected to inquire into the expedieney of establish-
ing ‘Territorial, Governments within the limits of
disloyal States or Districts, and report. by bill, or
otherwise,

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 21,
SeNATE.—Several petitions were presented, pray-

without compensation, and those of Joyal masters
with compensation.—Mr. IIale presented a petition
trom citizens of Boston, claiming that the {ree
Referred. —
Mr. Jlowe vave notice that be would {introduce a
bill to amend the Fugitive Slave Law.—Adjourned
to Thursday.

Movusn—Not in session.

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26.

Sesate.—On motion of Mr. Hale, it was avrecd
that when the Senate adjourned to-day, it be to
meet on Monday next, and when the Senate meet
on that day, it adjoura to mcet Thursday.—Messrs.
Sumner and Triambull presented petitions for the
emancipation of slaves, under the war power.—Mr.
« Hale offered a resolution that the President be re-
i quested, if not incompatible with public interest,
to transinit copies of all despatches which have

assed between this Government and Great Britain,
lative to the seizure of Me. Mason and Slidell,
said despatehes 16 be communicated either in open
For executive session, as may be deemed proper.
i Mr. Sumnuer objected, ‘
Hovsn—Not in session.

Mospay, DECEMBER 30.

SeNATE.—Mr. Sumner presented a petition from
citizens of Steuben County, New York, for the pas-
save of a hu for abolishing slavery in all the
States. — Mr. Foster presented a similar one.—Mr.
Summer presented a petition from the citizens of
, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, for emancipa-
(tion, under the war power.—Mr, Grimes introduced
a bill to acquire a tide to the District of Columbia.
i-—Myr. Davis introduced a bill deelaring certain
i persons alien enemies, and for sacrificing their
|property for the benefit of loyal persons.—Re-
i ferred.— Adjourned until Tharsday, ,
Housn.--Mr. Stephens of Pennsylvania, from
‘the Committee on Ways and Means, reported a bill

: repeating cerfain laws creating ports of entry. Its
fconsideration was postponed until the second

‘Tuesday in February.—Atter Mr. Sicphens had ex-
' plained his views, he said that the blockade was a
qeast admission of the nationality of those whose

: principle for a nation to blockade its own ports.

| )The object of the bill is to close all potts of en-
itry or delivery in uny State that now is, or hereat>
oter may be, in rebellion against the United States;
. specifying as the present rebellious Stutes, Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Geo zn, Alabama,
| Florida, Texas, Louisinna, Mississippi; ‘Tennessee,
fand A rkansas. |

— toe -——

THE PINE TREE PROMENADE,

[——Son “uty contributors do not like Our Best
i Parlor, Tt “oors talking plice. Unaer
{
| the brane t them prome Two

sone but

» is sent to

i words (Oa,
\

' ladies need appr
; 5

50) different po of Congress,
antl to the ses, lawyers,
aud jourr some sever:

ateation.
Atods can
of author-
lope they

ity In sel
The ©9:

now

GUANCES AT CONGRESS;

INVITATION, —

a Mayti will soon regain her ancient splendor. This

ny | Marvellous soil that our fathers, blessed by God,

on | conquered for us, will soon yicldl to us the wealth
iy - ' Z

he how hidden in its bosom. Let our black and yel-
Ci

low brethren, seattered through the Antilles, and
North and South America, hasten to codpernte
‘with us in restoring the glory of the Republic.
| Huyti is the common country of the black race,
» Our ancestors, in taking possession of St, were care-
! fal to“umounce in the Constitution that they pub-
| lish , that all the descendants of Africans, and of
«c inhabitants of the West Indies, belong by right
athe Haytian family, The idea was grand and
NCrous. .

Be . ‘sten, then, all ye negroes and mulattos who, in
the vast Continent of America, suffer from the
prejt. “dices of caste, The Republic catls you; she
invites YOl to bring to her your arms and your
minds. The regenerating work that she undertakes
interests all colored people and their descendants,
no matter what their origin or where their place of
birth.

raining her former position, retaking

sptre as Queen of the Antilles, will

‘al, most cloquent and peremptory,

ractors of our race who contest

‘lity to attain a high degree of
GEFFRARD.,

Hayti, reg
her ancitnt se
be a formal demi.
against those det
our desire and ab,
civilization,

crmrcuL, “AR-—No. I.

To the Blacks, Men of G ‘olor, and Indians in the
United States and the 4 Sritish North American
Provinces:
Frienps,—I am authorize

the Government of the Repu

dividually and by communitic
and a free homestead, in Hayt.

Such of you as are unable tc
sage will be provided with the
ing it.

‘Two classes of emigrants are .
—laborers and farmers. None of
any class, will ve furnished with
cannot produce, before sailing, the
character for industry aud integri

To each family of emigrants, ti
fresh and fertile land, capable «
fruits and staples of the tropic
otisly given, on the sole condi
. settie on it and cultivate it, ans
tion of becoming citizens of Hi
men, on similar conditions, tw
granted. >

Board and lodging, free of
to the emigrants for at least ¢
arrival in the island, 4 a .

The government also wil, * find remunerative
work for those of you whose , “Beas will not per
mit you to begin immediate. ‘Y 88 independent
cullivation

Finizrants are invited to settle

Sites for the erection of schoo!
he donated by the State, withou
livious belief of the emigrants.

‘The same protection and civii
laws give to Haytians are solemn.
the emigrants.

The fullest religious liberty will
them; they will never be called ont
Roman Catholic Church,

No military service will, be demand
excepting that they shall form inilitary
and drill themselves once a month.

All the necessary personal etfects, machn
avvicultural instruments introduced by -
grants shall be entered free of duty,

The emigrants shall be at liberty to le.
country at any moment they please; bu
whose passage shall be paid by governm,
they wish to return before the expiration of ti
years, will be required to refund the money c..
pended on heir account, A contract, fixing the
amount, will be made with each emigrant before
leaving the continent.

I have been commissioned to superintend the
interests of the emigrants, and charged with the
entire control of the movement in America, and
all persons, therefore, desiring to avail themselves
of the invitation and bounty of the Haytian Gov-
ernment are requested to correspond with me.

[shall at once, as direeted by the Government.
establish a bureau of emigration in Boston, anc
publish a Guide Book for the use of those persons
of Atriean or Indian descent who iiay wish to
make themselves acquainted with the resources of
the country and the disposition of its rarities

‘d and instructed by
Nie, to offer you, in-
3, a welcome, ahome,

+ pay for your pas--
means of defray-

especially invited
“vithér class, or
passports, Who
s proofs of good
ty,
ve earreaux ® of
uf growme all the
‘s, Will be gratuit-
jon that they shall
‘ declare their inten-
ayti. $To unmarried
© carreaux will be

cost, will be furnished
tight days after their

in communities.
sand chapels will
¢regard to the res

rights that the
'y guaranteed to

be secured to
o support the

ed of them,
companies

“ery and
ihe emi-

ave the
t those
ent, it

“wee

Ne

ubilithes

I shalt also, appoint Agents tov
vrinsfetss s- way seriously enter?

TH

Haytian Bervau or Esicnatiox,
Boston, Aug. 31, 1851.
Autumn Arrangements.

Arrangements will be male by which emigrants
can sail from different ports during theautumn and :
winter, Due notice will be piven of the days of '
sailing, through the columns of The Pine and Palm.

Persons desiring to emigrate are requested to |
react carefally the circulars of this Bureau, and to
tullow the directions therein given, a3 it is impossi-
Mle to provide for the comfort of passengers except
by insisting on a strict compliance with our regu-
lations.

I, Let it be understood, that all whocan pay for
their passage are expected to dos05 and thata
passage willbe advanced to such farmers and Ja-
borers only as are unable to meet this expense.

I. All mechanics who intend to praciice their
trades in Hayti, must go at theirown expense 3 the
Government: guarantees to find work for farmers
and laborers only. It will weleome all colored eme
igrants ; butit cannot agree to provide work for
all classes of mechanics, [ts demand for agricul-
tural labor is unlimited ; but tor mechanical skill
this is not the case.

IN. Passengers will be charged at the rate of
$18 cach adult from United States ports; from
Canada West, $25. Children under cight will be
charged half price ; infants under one ycar, free.

IV. Passengers, in all cases, must provide their
own bedding, Mattresses mast be four feet wide.
Each passenger must also be provided with a cin
gallon can for tater, atin cup, atin p knitu and
fork, a few pounds of soap, and iowels, with such
extra utensils as may be deemed necessury to hold
the daily rations. .

*. ‘The amount of baggage allowel to every
passenger is two tanks, er two barrels, or one
trunk andone barrel. All treight over that amount
will he charged for, separately from the passave
ticket, at the rate af 75 cents per barrel cr i5 cents
per cubic foot from American ports. The amount
for all overlund freight, when advance’ by the
Bureau, will Le added to the passaze money in the
Contract, This is exclusive of the bedding,—which
gos free. All goods inst be boxed up.

VI. The board provided for emigrants will be the
navy rations of the United States, minus intoxica-
ing spirits, which will not be allowed in our ves-
sels. The following is the fare:

EEK.

toe

a isZi de gt

ii SE ior op

D i | se lg ah
ays. | Se elst, BEL
Blah & i Ze 5 |
ibe 55 nee ez 2)
BSE FRSE5 2e52 |
oz tb Ib tb 0204020202 Ptpt pr gt |

Sun, tel: sh: 244 | ee |
Mon. 14}; 1; 23.10; 34) § 51
Tues. Mon! | 2iypeea dt fy
Wed ai art | Qby bg} id
Thurs. yt} 2h. Ge il
Friday 1451.1] , 2222 32° 4
Sal, i 9G pega
O64 Sl ebige gb WET 4 416 45857

Emigrants are at liberty to carry, free of expense,
additional provisions to be used on the voyage.
Slight additions may be made to the navy rations;
but the Burean does not pledge itself to do so.

VIL. As efforts have been industriously made by
unscrupulous men to misrepresent the conditions
under which emigrants who do not prepay their pes-
saves, will accept the offers of the Government of
Hayti, ic is deemed advisable to publish below,
in full, the contract to be made with them. The
words in italie and within brackets (blank in the
original) are tilled up to show precisely the terms
on which a single man can emigrate. It should
be distinetly understood, that no bartier whatever
will be put to any man’s return, excepting that he
shall pay the sum of cighteen dollars before em-
barking for the United States, if he aid not pay
for his own passage from this country to Hayti.
The Government of Hayti, while they will welcome
all visitors, cannot reasonably be expeeted to pay
their passages, Hence this provision.

The tollowing is the contract with the emigrants
who do not prepay their passages;

eee

Articles of Agreement.

Ww

, Talized
_ come a citizen

+ same snflerings.
Pome the country is open to them also.

r = ee — cnn
| daytion Advertisements, OIROULAR.-No, TIT. CALL FOR EMIGRATION...

_ Men of our race dispersed in’ the United States
Your fate, your social position, instead of amelior-
ating, daily becomes worse. The chains of those
who are slaves are riveted; and rejudice, more
implacabic, perhaps, than servitude, pursues and
risics down the free, Everything is contested
With us in that country in which, nevertheless they
boast of iiberty; they have invented a new slavery
for the free, who. believed that .they had now po
liasicrs; it is this humiliating patronage which is
revoltiny to your hearts. Philanthropy, in spite of
its noble efturts, seems more powerless than ever
to lead your cause to yictory. Contemptand hatred
increase avainst you, and the people of the United
States desire to cject you from its bosom.

Coinc, then, to us! the doors of Hayti are open
toyou, By happy coincidence, which Providence
seems to have brought about in your behalf, Hayti
has risen from the Jong debasement in which a
lyrannical government had held her; Jiberty is re-
stored there. Come and join us; come and uring
to Us « contingent of power, of light, of labor:
come, and 1ugether with us, alvance our own com
Mon country in prosperity. We will come by this
aicans {0 the aid of the philanthropists who make
such generous efforts to break the chains of those
of our brethren who are still in slavery.

Our institdtions are liberal. The government is
mili and incderate. Our soil is virgin and rich—
we have large tracts of good land, nearly all uncul-
tivated, which only need intelligent workmen to
till them. Everything assures you in this country
oY @ lappy future. Eor those among you who
Possess capital, it will be easy to fad et once a
place £ us. The country offers them imme-
diate re-curevs. They can count on the solicitade
of the Goeverument, and on its special protection.
Our society is ready to adop: them and prepares
for the: 2 fratcrual welcome. They will enjoy
here all the considerations that they merit; they
will occupy the rank that their resy ity ae
sisms them—all the things uat a bliad and bar-
harous prejudice refuses to them in countries in
hospitable to our race.

The poorer emizrants shall have the right to all
thet their siiuativa demands. The Government
will provide for their first necessities, and will take
the proper measures to secure to them a quiet and
honorable asylum, as well as to facilitate for them
the means of obtaining employment.

It is very natural that you should ask, before
coming to an unknown country, what are the fa-
cilities that will be afforded to vou, 2s well fer thes
satisfaction of your first needs, a5 for your defini.
live setdement. This thought has seriously occa-
pied the Chief of the Republic and his Govern-
ment,

I proceed to state the determination to which it
has come:

To such of you as are not able to pay the ex-
penses of your passage, aid will be given from the
public treasury. :

Axents, whom I shall presently appoint in the
United States, will be charged to meke the nects-
sary arrangements in this respect.

On their arrival here, the emigrants will find
loduing vratuiously, where, duriny the first few
d their neels will be provided for.
overninent will oceupy i:self from this time
With providing means to offer to each pxirson, on
arrival, cither on private estates or the public do-
mains, sutticiently remanerative work.

Every individual, the issue of African blood, may,
xtcly on arrival, declare his wish to be naru-
: and after one vear’s residence, he can be-
of Hayti, enjoying ail his civil and

cal Ti .
re emizrants will he exempt from military ser

_ Vice, but their children, whea ther are of the

requisite age, shall be held to perform the service
conformabiy to the laws of the couniry; thai is to
sav, for a limited time, and by the resalr of con-
setiption. [Pur suite du tirage au sort.) This

‘conception does not constitie, in their favor, a

modification of the law on the National Guard, of
Which every citizen musi form a part.

You will have power, also, freely to exercise
your relizion.

T have spoken here only of the members of the
. African tace, Who groan in the Unite . states more

tre, DY reason of the ig-oble prejudice
aur sympathies are cqualiv extended

than elsew
of color: be

“to all those of our origin who, throaghoat the

world, are bowed down under the weight of the
Let them come to us! The bos-
T repeat
it, they will be able to acqnire, ehher on the public

'S§ AGREEMENT, made and entered into thls : or private esiates, fertile lands, where, by the aid
ff rst] day of [January], A.D., IS81, by and , of assiduous labor, they will find that happiness
bee 7" JaMES Repraty, of Boston, General ; which, in their actual condition, they cannot hope
Ae ‘eration, on behalf of the Govern: to find.

n ‘ie of Hayd, and [John > The man whom God has pointed out with his
& ‘zan], and an emi- } finger to elevaic the dismity of his race, is found.
' The hour of the refinion of the children of Hayti
: ' Tet them he” Sneed that Hayd
smith} 1 as wie Dulwark o1
ge rere SNE Bg as
.wuston] to thé port of [sy, | Given at the office

; Hayti, in the (Brig L7Ami @
ftatti|, leaving ~* ert of [Boston] on or about
the [third} day we §Vanuary), 1851, upon the

.

conditions here ~. \Silowing, viz:

First

nid [John sniaay vereby acknowledges the

Intezior, at Ps-

1894, 38th year

The Secretary «
ship, changed par
Iaterior and of A

Bee Ee

.cd, but darkies hab to be careful.”

ful of what?”

fulob who dey knows; good many bad
niggas *bout.””

“Pshaw, Scip, you're ‘coming de possum;’ that
game won't work with me.
nigger than Jim, in all South Carolina.
hirn well.”

“P’raps he am; reckon he ama good cnuff nig-
va’?

“Goo enough nigger, Scip! Why, —f tell you,
he’s a splendid fellow; just as true as steel. He's

{ know

been Norch with the Colonel, often, and the abo- -
litionists wave tried to vet him away; be knew he

conld go, bat wouldn't badge an ineh.”
“Cknew he wouldn't,” said the darke

", & plens-

arable gicar passing through his cyes; dat sort!

don’t run; dey face de music!”

“Why don’t they ran?” What do you mean?”

Nuffin, » a3a,—only dey ruther stay har.”

“Come, Sip, you've played this game long |
enough. Sell ine, now, what that look you Yave |
tach other when you shook hands meant.”

“What look, masa? Oh! [Ps’pose ’twar ’canse
we'd both heard ob cach other afore,”

“Tag mnore than that, Scip. De frank; yon
Khow you can trast me.’ '

“Wal, cen, masia,” he replied, adding, after a}
short pane, “de ole woman called you a Yaukes;
you can guess.” :

“Tf Lshonld guess, twould be that it meant mis-
chief.” i

“Tt dow t mean mischief, sar,” sald the darkey,
with atone and air that would not have discrared
a Cabinet officer; ‘at only meant right andl jus:
tice,”

“Tt means that there is some serret understand-
ing lntween you.”

“Stole von, massa,” he replied, relapsing into
his usual manner, “atde Marks ami all freema-
sons. FE vabe iin de grip, ant he know'd ae,

o

He'd ha’ known my name ef you hadn't tole him.” |
ould he have known your name?” \

“Why

“Caurce | gabe de grip dat tale him.”

“Why did be call you Scipio? 1 called you
Seip”

“Obl de darkies all do dat.
white falka call me Seip, Jo cae’t say no tnore,
Thaasa;, PS BREAK DE OVTH REE pint?

“You have said enough, Scipio, to satisfy me
that there is a seerct league among the blacks, and
that you area leader init, Now. [tell yeu, you'll
get yoursesf into a scrape. Wve taken a Hiking to
you, Seip, and Pshould be very sorry to see you
run yourself into danger.”

“ftank you, massa—from de bottom ob my soul
{tank you,” he said, as the tears moistened bis
oyes. “You bery kind, raassa; it dA ine good ty
talk with you. But what ain ing life wath? What
am nny slore’s life wath? Ef you war ine, you'd
do Sike me?

feat not deny it, and made no reply.

The writer of this article is aware that he is hers
THAKINY AN iinpoctant statement, snd one that iy
be called in queation by those persons who are ae-
cuptotned to regard the Southern lacks as only
reasoning brutes. The great mass of them are but
alittle above the brutes in their habits atl in-
atinets; Duta large boy are fully on a par, exeept
fo mere book education, with thelr white ronsters,

‘fhe conversation above reconfled is, verbatim et
Hiteratin, true, [ttook place at the tine indica.
ted, and wae taken down, 1% weee other conversa-
fions recorded in thease papers, within twenty-four
hours after its occurrence, ‘The name and the Jo-
cality only, Dhave, for very evident reasons, dis-
Knised,

From this conversation, together with previous
ones, held vith the same negro, and from other
dezelopinents minds to me at variona places, and pt

different timea, extending, over a period of six |

weeks, Pbecaime acquainted with the fact--and |

kai it to ben foel--that there exists among the |

Darks nsecret pil wide-spread organization, of 1
Maaonie character, having its grip, pass-worl, ancl
oath. fthas variona grades of Jenders, who tre
corapetent and carnesd men, and ita cltisinte ob-
Jeti rreepom. ot ia quite at wide-spread ns,
and much more sect than, the order of the
“Knighta of the Golden girele,” the kindred leaguer
amoug the witite,

‘This latter organization, which was instituted by
Joba €. Calhoun, Willian f. Porcher, and others,
aa far back na 1855, lines for its sole object the dis
solution of the Union, nnd the establishment of
Ronthern empire -Kangire ia the word, not Counted

erary or Republic—-and it waa solely by means of

ite eerpnt, but povorful machinery that tho Routh
ern States were plunged into revolution, in defiance
of the will of the majority of thei voting popula
tion,

Nearly every man of intuence at the South (and
sonny se preendedt Union manat the North) iss
fosinber of this organisation, andl sworn under Use
penalty Of resnasination, to Inher ‘Gn season and
aut of reason, by fate ineana and by foul, at all
times and on all ocensions,”” for the aecoimplish:
Tent Of i objest, The thacka sare Down) together
by a siroliae onth, and only bide their Hine,

‘The knowledge of the real state of politicns affairs
whiel the negrota have acquired through this or
ganization, ia netonishingly accurate: their lentere
poagoss every essential of fendership, oxrept it may

There ian’? a better |

‘remarkable person, had he never written a line.”

‘completion, will do ample justice to the Path

"ewer to the charges whieh have heen taade agabnst

Nobody bat ae,

,agz yet, have not enjoyed the privilege of
reading all of the articles, “graye and gay,” which
make up the present number; but would commend
: ty the attention of our readers the following, viz.:
“Jefferson and Slavery ;”’ whercin it is the writer's
intention (well accomplished) to “try to come at
Jefferson’s veal opinions of slavery, just as they
grew when he did so much to found the Repubhie,
just as they flourished when he did so much to
build the Republic,—just a3 they were re-wrouht
and polished when he did soanuch to brace the
Republic”? “Sames Fenimore Cooper,” in which
something 6 said, “upon the genius of this great

writer, and incidentally, upon the character of a
oinan, who would have been a noticeable, not to say

This say, is well said, and nothing less could have

Deen expected, or would: have proved satisfactory

from one ofthe refined taste, and discriminating

Judgment possessed by hin to whom the author:

ship is attributed,

Hundred
ere

An interesting paper is) “Fremont’s

Missounis” whieh we trust, its

Days in

finder, although we are informed) the narra:
tive to be given “as not intended) to he a de.

fence of Gen. Fremont, nor in ans respect an nine

the present, we request the

hin.” Lastly, for
Were ADO te sily Keriais pe
» Cpistle to

reaer’s attentive, we

rasal of Birlofreduin Sawin, Psq's.

Mr. Hosea Bivlow, 4
THe Kstekeenock en: or New York Monthly

' Magazine. New York and Boston: 21 Gilmore,

Philadelphia: T. P. Petesson & Brothers. The
January numberis ononr table, ined right clad

Sire we ener nore tocnjoy its companionship, after
can interval of many years, during which our
wanderings have been frequent nnd far cbistant;
| our friend, in the meanwhile, as was his wont, re-
Sinainping seated in his antique “high-baek,” pen
band pipe in hand, and with the atuimerous favilian
"surroundings, including the piteber, presumably
filled with Adnamic ale, or some mild Viquer, “that
cheers bat net inehiiates,” and the old tabby ent,
vreposing at her ease in front, woking forall the
Cworkl aa if te the wagner born,

[tis a somewhat singular and agreenble coined
dence, Chat ao renewal of or acqiaintarceship
should beaiarked by a reiippearance of the weil
rernembercad suit of blue, that gracest onr friend so
becomingly in his carly days; a timely return to
which, prevents that outburst of outraged leclings
which woull inevitably have occurred, bad we
been accosted in the i-becoming brick-dist dress,

{ whieh, inanevil lour, some tasteless, designing
chemy must lave sugested,

Among the good things that, on pis occasion,
have been withdrawn from the well-stocked man
seriptchest. whieh stillocenpies its old accustomed
position, lid thrown back, exposing to the inquit
ing gaze of the speetator the rich lores stilban
hand---arneng the capital articles vow brought aut
awl spread before us, weeean but enumerate, with-
out, for the present, at least, discussing their
respective qualities and merits, the following, vis.
the opening article, headed Richard Kimball,
wherein Js given sygue account of the Jife ane
Lpenins of one who, we are told, ling been a con.
tributer to every volume ef the Magazine sines
1R12, nnd furnishes for the present nutmnber the
coucluding portion o€ his interestiog Revelations
Por Wall street’ Sehiyler Conway's paper on
San Strokes,” wherein is presented, time to the
| hfe, a stroll through the goers of the daguerreo-
ciypists of the town, adinimbly portraying the
sights tobe seen there, Geo. Comming MeWhor-
ter contlbutes an attractive and Instenetive article
"the which ‘dis.
ltinguishes man from the rest of creation. The
| writer taking nn front view of the gens how,
pwhieh cimbraces alien, it opposition to Lord
ied posteriori.

Fon USpeetacdes; Hppendace

Moarbeortilo. schiose pivestiprationns
Katherine 8. Willlama’s necount of (Our Experi
ence dn House Cleaning! sail of cattise be rend by
al, and daly appreetoted: by many whe have ser.

i

ered,
eee eha, made by the writer, in
just prior “to the passage of the
Secession.” .
-—-We publish, without solicitation, and gratui-
tously, an avlvertisement of a new bool by Rev,
Alexander Cruimmicll, B. A., of Liberia, Attica, for.
erly aresident (alas! never a eifizen) of Mary
land. We do so for three reasyns—to nid) Mr.
Cruminell; to cneourage a literary spirit, amon
colored Ainericans; aul to show that
foolishly any of our recent associates muy ave
spoken of Liberia aud ber people, we, aud the Goy-
ernment we have the privilege to represent, recip
rocate, cordially, Che good wishes of President Bent

however

son, while at the same time, we dy not share his

fears as to the permaneney of a gvreat Negro Nas

tionality inthe Western World. We have none

but the kindlivst feclings toward Liberia, or her |

able vdlvorate and ex pe Mr. Craminett. ro |
. « >

sitor,
woe

Fro Haynie death of President ttefrard's
Mather -The Trent Aadaiv in Haytt--lLimigra-
finn By the avvival, en the 27th, from Port.
AU Trines, we are ii possession of Ehayti papers to
the vSuhi Noy,

Madame Fabre Gelfrard, mother of chetPresident
of Have, died at Portaue Prince on the Gath, aged |
) The des of foreien ships in port were
displayed at halfinast. At the funeral, all the pub.
He finetiongries were present, Proshlent Getlrard
nel his wit? walking after the eofiin,

Aiew daw had been promaleated pdative to the
commercial relations beowecu Haye and the Pes
Tunrgnes,

The news of the 'Prent: affair renehed Tayti be.
fore reaching: New York. The statement: that the
Conlederate cayoys were taken ont of the Prent by
Cropton Wilkes was generally diseredited: hoo"
save the Opinion Nationude, “Shewever great the ir
ritation of the North, it is net probable that the
Federal Goverment vonlh nin the risk of a war
with Dnedand: bat, if the Federal commander furs
neted, as stated, fran superior onders, i would ape |
pear that this war dias been previously resolved
upon by the Federal Government.”

A letter Cram divcinel saves thar the Gincoln Gov.
ernment dias obtained permission of Holhiml to es.
tablish a depot at charcoal at Caraga, The Goy-
ernorof Coracoa and the American Consul have
been removed, for permitting the entry inte the port,
of arebel ship. .

‘The most satisfactory reports are given in relation
to the wellare of the Lowisiaon and other emirants
to Tlayth Among these latter emigrants, are por
cons from Canada, Virginia, Ohio, Maryland, Ken.
tucky, the Carolinas, Missouri, Tentessce, Georein,
nnd Vlorida.
and write,

The conspiracy at Gonaives: was wholly sup:
pressed, and President Geltrard dau annonneed
thatthe grentest tranquility existed all ayer the
Repultic,

The troubles with Spain in regard te St. Domine
oo bad been arranged, anda Convention concluded
between Hayti and Spain By this Convention,
Hiv ti agrees to pay Spin 25,0000 pinstres for the
damages infieted upon inhabitants on the frontier
of St. Domingo by the Haytinns daring the trou
tes which attended the annexation to Spain of St.
[rorninee VOY. Beening Post,

: fwees cece
Jons Brows’s Lieven. We say “leetare”
for nek of acbetter word, though Capt. Brown does
not pretend to hen lectures, iany sense, bot only
aehaio gentleman and soldier, His reception, at
Opera Hall, Weduesday evening, was very largely
attended, the ball boing packed full of cnr best
citizens, Amore attentive and interested andience
noon ever bad in this city ; smd we doubt any
wuttienee were ever better satistied with an eve.
nines enfertadstnend. Ebene ds nee teats Laat that
Caph Brown willeasily Glbout his conpany, i he
creates the sare interest amon dre deters andl
Jumbermen that he has excited here.
On Wednesday evening, de gave a plain, unvar
nished, bit very interesting arcomtl of some of
She experiences of bis funily, and the Pree Ste
men diing the Kansas war, and of the charneter
of the secessionists of Westenra Missouri, with
whoo he expeets te cantend in bate | alluded
briefly tothe Harper's Ferry affairs and commenced
spenking of the rebel order of Knights of the
Gohlen Cirele,
Ag he finished speaking, nparty ef serenadera,
whoowere present, Dy the commivanes ef the pre
prictar of the dnl, were vbmitted) hetdnd oa etre
thin ie the rear of (he speater, and sarprised bath
the Captain and the audience ly sinesine that
nest popular of all melodies, “Glory, Halletajda”
Crand Hapids Weehly Bagle,
. tmwom >

While doe, servant of basking Watkins, a
Miasissippian ofllecr, wae cooking a ehicken inthe
hitebon ear the bospitnd, during the Balt an
bottle, ball passed ier hbo and steaek his

|
|
I
|
i}

ronal kanwledjeo of the matters vliereof she treat.

shillet. fn tts wp he ents Uless Ged tas,
Pevensey de chicken after dattl

They ave all intelligent, and can rend |

; Amon the last mentioned 2 take

Sament of that (ene religion, whiel

te ay Gee .
sed | nent of one weal, ‘
to make known our tougnts ‘dd. By order of the Gov ,, it OF the Republic of
vith what joy do Lnote the f rw, | Haye. Janks Reprati,
when our whole country js resou. he Bosiox wore ret gent of Emigration.
tramp of regimental feet, and) Par’ i | ——— ’ ™ ‘
African Slavery are engaged in m rreau fs 3 acres and 3} rods.
the “tented field,” we, of the sabl ej” nan

allowed room to give our ideas to t.

., 1
room tu the youthful graduates our public

| schools, which still flourish ino we hivge cities,

room to the
ranville, those
oyouth 3 and

notwithstandiag, American hate
daughters of Oberlin and Met
cherishing: mothers of many of ¢
room to the willing denizens of untry villages,
reared winid poverty and prejudien , who, earnestly
desiving to benetit their race, at. vast) find them-
selves in The Promenade” of Th Pine and Pat.
iv humble place;
bat when here, communing with kindved spirits,
Tforvet the conflicts of the pa ot; for although
nearly allot my kindred are slec sing beneath the
soitofiy native valley, vet he ce inthe Pat's

| Promenade, ] find kind sister 5 and thoueh I

recommize Dut one usa personal eqnaintanee, vet
right shelly do Pextend the pen’ f sisterly tellow-
shiptoal Thou hast giveny cbanner co them
that fear Thee, that itamay be. lisphiyed for the

ceans of tth, sabb the inspite od Psabnists and

now (hat we have room, leas ed eplay ore banners
for the cause of truth, for the edueation of our
race, for the dissemination of vi- aous and upright
principles among our youth,am for the advanee-
sees Tmevery nee
wobrocher, and fifts up the suffer. ae sister from the

wirside, and points her to the t dn in Gitead.
May the influence cmant ing from“ The
Promenade” of The Fine and! Pah widen and
spread until the, principles of ho manity and sister:
hood shatleover Che earth as the
Riza bea

ae wom

waters cover the
mischty deep, Honan,
Renee or Feerrives is Co xapa—An Asso-
ciation has been formed inthe townor St. Cathe-
rine'’s, Ninzary Distviet, Canad: West, to relieve
such (ieitive shaves as may be s dering (rom: sick-
ness ordestitution. Elis called “The Payitive Abe
Society of St. Catherine's.” Phe officers are the
following: °
Charles TL Ulull, President; TP enjamin Fletcher
Vice President; Christopher At bons, Secretar
[EW Wilkins, Assistant Secret ry; Wan Heteh-
inson, ‘Treasurer. Comimittwe-- larriet “Tobinan,
Mary Tlntehinson, John foues, Win fh Stewart.
This Association may be relies on as worthy of
contidence by those who wish to ielp the fugitives
in Canada, many of whom arti loubtedtly in need
of sueloaid. Contributions cit br in elothing or
money, nay be sent to Robert (. Walleut, Aut-
Slavery Office, 221 Washington [treet, Boston, or
to Rev. Wi. Burns, St. Catherin 's, Canada West.
Liherutor,

AWK FUTURE OF APRICAS Mise piastes: Hy Rev,
eo ArCANbern Crespeae, WAL of Biberia, Aftles. - Phe
trndorsigned proposes te feane fin fied velime, of ahont
SOO pared: oratbome, ncblresees, and offer papers, maeathy
prepared fer untional and imbsstonary o¢ § sions, dn Liberia,
Wet Aftieas ond pertalaing to National fife nid Paty.
The following isa Bat of the artteles:-— .
1 ‘The Rovtish Baupiage di biberin.

_

2 ‘The Dhity ofa Rising Ohefatian Rtn plo contiibute do
the Werkls Well-betng ancl Civil ition,
3. Addrese on bavtng (he Cosper Stine (i St. Mark's Hes.

oe Palunis.

pital, Co
rations of Free Colored yen in Amertea,

A. Untty ced f
feo Afeten.
Kalegiiim on tie iifenand Chameter ¢
Fon, Disep.
otal the Nation: An Anntverrary Uermon,
The Fitness of the thaspel for Heown Werks A Cone
soon tional Serinepe,
2 The Prepress nnd Binspects ef Che Repuldie af Libertas.
1h Pregreas of Civili Patio along Che West Coast of Aftten.
The Neveo Rree ned ander a Coree: Frome the ban
don Chrbethan Observer, of Anienst, PRG,

This volume will be printed od geod while papers ti elear
type; neatly betel: aml at Sh gone daily) per copy.

As Tt published to help repair aeous tessea hy the, in
Afvive; nt te seedre the ednertion of hie ebtdren: i whl
not bo published anti Pe suabscrtbers are frst obtatied:.

The alot yenerous frtonla be requested, ates early day
ne possible, oa the aubseptber anyone fe return, very
som to hledaty da Afra. ALEX. CH MMIEGL, Mission
ary ME Sprdng atueet, New Yous,

POS. "The followstog rte tee heen pectily abtalned,
witht a very dew cage, fie the ity of Philadelphia, mostly
for Ten rapes:

Att. Mew AL Potter, B.D,

Hong. Coatea, bE

Thonins Clark-

Rear, Allort Marne,
Roy SU. Vein, aL N.Y.

“ OIROULAR.---No, II,
GENERAL Bernau or EMIGRATION, ]
Boston, Dee. 17, 18st. f

Bureaux and wNvents,

The Corresponding and Shipping Bureau of Emi-
gration is situated in New York City-—temporarily
ads Beekman street. All letters of inquiry res-
speeting Havel and the Haysian Movement, shontd
be addressed to me, there. Persons in. New York,
desiling information: respecting Hayti, verbally,
eavobtain it from: Henry Melrose, Corresponding
Secretary there,

The Boston General Bureau will be situated in
the Washington Building, Room 7,221 Washington
street. Miss BL Howard, (who lived several vears
as a missionary jn Pbiyti), wilh answer all the inqui-
ries of intending emibcrauts in Bostan,

The Philadelphia Burean of iaiqretion is now
united tothe Haytian Consulate. Anthracite Buiid-
ing, corner of Walnut andpSecoadl streets, (eons),
Geo, Lawrence, de, isappoinie) AecineConmmercial
Agent. of Vlayti for Philadelphin, Gand Resident
Ageutot Emisration for Ponnsyivanis. AU frieuds
ot che Movement, and persons desiious of eminra-
ting, or of obtiinine the Ywliable thers of Haytare
adcised toentbon hinvat the Bureaty .

The Western Rravel Rareau wit be situated at
the residence of Lanw N. Carey, at Windsor, nda
West, AM persons in the Canadas, Ohio, Michigan,
or Farther West, who desire aid to enable chen to
veavh the seashore’, will reeeive it throurh Mr,
Carey, whom they ninst satist) as to theiv fitness
for the pioncer Tile whieh every emicrant eneht ta
be prepared for. Te will furnish them: with tickets,
ad notify them when to start. Persons living in
the States should address Mr. Carey at) Detroit,
Bos 276, Michigans but, it in Canada, they stout
address him at Windsor, :

The Bureaus will be open trom WN. Me fo a P.
M., every week hiv,

Files of the Pine and Palins willbe kepe there,
together with such other documents as emigrants
may need, .

The followin gentlomen ave the authorized trav.
cline Avents af the Movement:

hor the Canadas, Ohio and Miehinan s~Win,
4 Watkins, Mi. Watkins will lectime on Havel
daring the next two months, in any part of North:
era Ohio, Central Michigan, er die Catuulas, an be.
ine duly notified of a desive to hear bint, and chat
preparations have been made tor his reception. His
address will be, Detroit, Miehiean,

Simon Pod Spencer, who tas travelled exten.
sively in Vayti, and is ominutety taadliae with Ter
nataraband mineral resources, will visit any arn.
ine communities in the same distriets iv whieh Mr,
Watkins will fibors and by eatin on intending
emigrants, at their own honses, will be enabled to
satisty then an every disputed point. Commiunitios
desire a visit from him, should apply to My. Carey.

The following gentlemen are authorized Local
Agents:

Mar Maine: TOW. Reeves, Portland,

Mor Newark, NO COW. Totles.

No other persons are mtthorized (o actas Aponts,
ne all persons assuming to do se are iMpostors,

Correspondents who wish to write to me on any.
thing connected with Phe Pine and Palm, should
abtess ime, ot Boston s Daten atl suljects con.
weetedt with the Haytian Movement, af Ver Youd.

Carrespondents shauld enelose a threc-eent past:
re adam, ta prepay ea letter in ten ta their qgaes-
fiona,

Friends aderes
should mark their letters, “pracude,”
them toa Boston,

There ave now ne mere copies of The Gnide to
Hayti, for cratiitons distribotions but Haydon
Papers Noo t,owhieh contiing a beief svnapsis
of the Gride, will be sent to any addyess on receipt
ofaceeent postage stamp. The Guide can be had of

fir me oon personal business,
nnd clirevt

receipt of Ja} ticket of passage from said port |
of [ Boston] to said port of [St. Mark], in Hayti,
and agrees dtuing the cu of said vovare
provide [Ais] own bedding, and the neces
ttensils for eating and drinking.

Secondly, in consideration of receiving the passage
aforesaid, said [.Jokn Smith] further agrees,
that if he accepts a grant of land from the Gov-
ernment of Hayti, under the provisions of dhe ;
law on Emigration, approved by His Excelleney ;
the President of the Republic of Hayti, Septem. |
ber L, 1860, he will repay to the Treasury of the |
Republic of Uayti the sum of [eighteen] dollars, |
American currency, within [three years] from the
date of this contrmet.

Furthermore, that if from any cause said [John
Sm] sees proper to leave Hayti before the ex-
piration of the term of three years trom the date
of [Ais] arrival in the Tstand, [Ae] shall pay the
Treasursgot the Republie of Hayti the stm of

LAV

Tate on the 2
Persous of

| FABRE GErrr
; _ Ry the advice
Stace and the
siderad and d

Has render,

Artietn TL Atter un
ent law, five carveaux of land w.
of all charge, to every family of labors ¢

vators of the Atviean or Indian races who shsa
arrive in the Republic, This erant wilt be recueed
two carmeaux when the labowr or cultivator is un-
Mamed,

the date of [dds] arrival therein, and does not

of Uavdi, ov any seent of Government thereot,
ANY st Wikttever on adecount of said passage,
Ix Wirstes Wrertror, the said) parties have
hereunto set their hands and seals dhe day and
year above written,
8.4 [Jorn Smith]
os] dames Rrpeati,
VIM. Einicrints must pay their expenses to the
portof embarhadon.
EX. To aid) emigrants who wish to carry extra
Dareage, Che Burvan will allow them, (by giving a
note payable to the Gaverament of Hast.) 0 take

see fit fe aecept a erant ef land from the Gavern
mentof the Repultic at Hav. pie} shall not be
required to vepay to the Treasury of the Repulic

Ant. IE These grants will be delivered, withont

Jeigdicen] dollars, American curveney Wpaye expense, and with a provisional tile, to every famie
Of the Iv that shall have made, betare the proper magis-

rts but, ware, the deviavation preseriba bv Jaw with the

That ¢ view or o hr natu fon, and they wiht be

POTVOTION Bue al gran Rer a wsidence af a
Year and a dav in ihe country.

Anv. Ut The tinal grauts will De given in ex:
° e1oy the provisional grants only when it sha
have beer dined by the Goverment scents

that ov has alwady commenced on the
prwyperts ted.
AntoUV. The gvantee shall not have Power to

dispose of bis grant before the expiration of seven
Censecdiive Years of occupation. Nevertheless, ke
wil be ale te obtain the antherity to exchange
his crant dor anether preperty. but onty en the
conditions, terms, and with the powers sbove.
manied,

Phe present law shall be ]

\ somptly executed by
re Seore i

lary er Siate, of ihe Interior, and of Agd-

such treight tothe amount of ten dollars, cuit,

X. The Burean wishes it to be distinedy under- Given ac the National House of Por-au-Prince, the
stead, however, chat unless at deast twenty arth of Sepromber, vear Ath of Independence.
netiee is piven of intention to sail, with the amount See ED .
of haceage to he taken, it will not told itself wee aye slendarne: Cretan « Nret ; Pda RV2.
spansthio to scenre a passage fT any One. the Secretaries: CrLastix, dl. Y. Mexpoza.

XE. AT porsens desiring: information relative qa Olven at ihe Chamber of Representatives ut Port.
the moventent, are conlially invited to correspond al Hinee, the Su September, 1800, vear th of
witithe General Bureau, er personally to visit it Idependence
The fullest information will he alfonted them, The President of the Chamber:

XUL Usnal length of vovagy, from fourteen ta ok W. Cuayrarre.
twenty days, . dais Reprarm, The Seevctarics: J, Trannacy, FL Rienrez.

General Agené of Enieration, sis tae Naweor rire Reverie:
. “| The President of Wayti ovdains that the rowgo-
OIRGULAR.--No. IV, ing law of Cie Legislative Bodies be stamped with
Navetas Branav or Emtenatios, 2 | the seal of the Republic, published and exeeiiad.
Roston, Auptst 12, 1861, {| Given at the National Palace of Port-au-Prince, the
On tuland Travel. net Sepromber, IQW, year Huh of Independenes.
. : : _— . Pun Presipeyr: TEFFRAR
To Agents and datending Kmicrants inland: Vy OTUE PRESIDENT: GEFPRARD
. s AE A ‘ erctary of State of the Interior av
GCendemen :—The chief ditentty that lias hither. rieudtiure, Body, de

ate
The See. of War and the Marine, T

ys

Weecet San .
Oresivend or ih

fo prvsented itself in carevings out the project of SEPHL
emigeation has arisen from the et thatcolenad farm. | The Keeper of the Seals, Secretary Deak

ers live chiefly ata considerable distance from the uf Nate ay te
coast, and are seldom able to detray the expenses :
of aching it, Especially does this obstacle present.
itsel’ inthe ease of intending emigrants residing |
|
!

General Peciee,

1 The See. of State af Justice Ju. Lamorne,
The See. ‘or State of & they ¥ Denote.

Evterior Relations, dances, Commerce, and
in the British: Provinces and the Lake cities, Te yN. PLESANER.
obviate it, various plus Thave been tried, various
schetnes lave been suggested: but experience has |
shown that they have not been adequate to che | Levon 0
necessities of the case. The last plan siygeested, ; “¢
and publicly adopted, Uo regiet Co annonce, must, Far
equally With the others, be abandoned, as too stow, |
expensive, and tneertains Pomean the purpose 7
sensling vessela fham che Lake. cities or fom ’
port of Toronte, direct, to Haya. a the
Rut by an arrangement just completed
co paatitee Co pay che expenses of
giant as ghe Acenta of this Baw
enlorse, from any town, or +
Western Railroatin Cana’ cation on the Gat
Windsor--or thorns. at, between Torvnty and
Cleveland, Evie soit, Toledea, Santuske, |
for ndults, et iVale--at Che pate of S23 each
inter ono stnder eight vears halt price, |
The bay ; . :

he Ade ot catlowed under this arrangement will!
adys ss. toench adut¢ passenger Emignints aw

i.

Naturalization of Emigrants of the
2Urican and Indian Races.
SRE GEPERARD:

On the report of the Seeretary of State of Tustin
aml by the advice of the Connell of the Seen:
wt Siate,

Considering thet prompt action is ¢
Vohall of those who possess the nw:
tions to become Haytians, ier
with faeility to center inte th
of the vieht adached to >

Proposes the toler

Arrienn 1,
ited as ton
Constiie’
ane’

”

» Dam able
all sueh emi-
ab may select and

SU,

G. Woobwouh Colton, (8 Beckman 86, New Yark,
Ae oO venta for the Emigrants’ Edition, and St for
the Gettrard Valition, postage paid,

Back numbers of the Pine nnd Palm, or spect
caplet al current fanes, will be sent, (roe
fanilies intending te emfgrate.

‘Ate Renan, er

ane
oo

eral feed,

Just Published. alter’
Ishand of Haytic Tis ts?
Map ef the Reputsiee
edged to be diese
is of taree <*
rents, Se
receipe

8 Pocket Mapof the
surawr after the “Gellrandt
a Hast,” whieh is acknowl:
of necirate ever oublished. Et

ean tadsomely bound. Prive a0
fee of postage, fo nay addivgs, or
; of oe nbove amount,

Mee Hit lG. Petre,
Hey OW. Craenft,
doh S. Crozer, Baq.,
Hen Pdbvard Coleg,

John Welth, Bag

Samuel Welw, Bag.

Rew. Thoma 8. Vietvons,

Tle. Gea AW Woods im
'

Rev HT. Noakes, Joti Mohler, sq.
Vo Cope, W. Parker Fontk Na
Anthony Po Merds de oat

stimny 2, Paty

rsa Soltens Mounted Map of the?
eeerydi, *Uhis isn large amd exquisi
Manet Hayton rollers, adapted
coding room or the pardor.

Ae OF expressave paid liye
[G. Wootwourn Cope

New Vork.

' aed tot to take housetiold (ynitiee across **
omy, bucty obtain suchas they wish °
York ov in Hava. Feather-heds an not
Havti, bat emigrants willdea well te
hed-eieks, and brave these tiled ww
York, for theix berths.

Pinigrants fom places er

sv ivania nid New or

within 40 mites e*

Co that port at

the sum 0¢

Gover

tr

ti BUEE TEA,

3

Te a ADE re otas WSN De APD TaN bee

pRbmARNEKE e+

“Horrors of St. Dominga.”

ae '
Vthatot the King, because to hin ently belongs the
PPeraaative intent in the chrome, and ne other, ae
- - peuning to the Constitadion, eat be its depositors |
HIS VORY Oe

THE REVOLUTIONS OF HAYTL
RY " sunt AMAND,

Advovate, former Memter of Ue Qwastitational
Assorutdy of Mav.

SeonsTuently the TnCer sahedioning cannot be
' delegated toa Governor General, a stinger te the

! . + .
1 PIV eAELOUS nuthouity over it; ated

Rook Whird.—(cortsery.? Trainee, Checnew eorgmact oneht to be made in eon

Translated cupready for The Hue and Pain,

Tho Colonial Assembly desired the independence
of the Colony, and dhe maintenance of slavery and |
pryijudice.

Under the guidance of its leading members, it:
laborat to effect those objects with a bhad) pertie :
nawity and ceaseless effort. Rash in its undertak- | ronsented e then ae nally,
ings, proud and haughty in its tone and action, it 7 hervas te National Assembly, we devoted ‘0
always betrayed its Weakness in the moment of the prinedples “ tuations wad whieh bas jist nade
danger, and its impotence to resist (he atack of its Known Ms mrention “ Seen the Prosperity of
enemies. The removal of the Government acents the } reneh Istancts in Atucriva, will Dot hesitate to
WAS necessary to the accomplishment ot its pur Wwennize the rights of Saint Domingo by a solemu
poss, but while they wens the objec of its con: | and authentic decree; therefore,
tinued attacks, it never had the countge to displace) . . .
them. It should have disowned the sovervignty of SSsiens CF Sab, Zerth, Ste, and in tha tof today, has,
the National Assembly; instead of whieh it merely and herby ‘lees dleerve, the tellowing:

evaded the execurion of its decrees, and disputed, Article 1. The lesistative nuthority, as fir “ "
by eyttivocation and trickery, the extent of its lates te the miternal Government of Saint Domine,
powers. tesides in the Assembly of

tuvokine the National Assembly to exercise, for ganic into a Vieneral Assembly of the Freneh
its defence, the sine powers w hose eNistenee if: Part of sunt Domingo. . . -
had denied, the ridictlousness of its fall contrasts At. = Xe ae “ the Leaislatury, with reference
with the temerity of its assumptions, and the arro- to internal administration, shall be deemed a per
gance of its attacks. manent haw, unless passe by the Representatives

The Assembly of Saint Mark, by its inst acts, of the Freneh part of Saint Domne, freely ad
exhibited its proclivities, and indicated its purpose. law tully lected, and unless it Le sanctioned by the
Te Raushtily stybad itself (he General Assenchiy of King.
ths Freach partes Saint Domingo. Eo members |
did not take the civic oath of tidelity fo (Ae nation,
to the latevand to the king, but thes simply swore
to de faithful in the exercise uf the porcers confided
to them. [t caused these remarkable words to be
dlazoned upon the curtain which decorated the
hallin which its sessions were held: “Saint Do-
MINGO, Tht Law, aNp THe Kine.”

Its acts are its decrees, whose promulzation and
exceution are confided to the Provincial Assem-
blies and committees.

Ik devlares that the Commandant of Mirbalais
has acted rightly in refusing to take the civic oath,
or to adminisier it to the soldiery, because -olidieal
reaons forbid it.—[Siuting of April 14.)

On the ith of April it learns that owo hundred
and eizhty reeruits, sent out by the minister, have ;
deen landed at Port-au-Prince; it commands that
they be neémbarked for France within eight days;
“bestuse,” said the decree, Cit would be very dan-
gercus to aliow such men to disseminate the pois-
onoas Coctrines of the philanthropic sect, through.
out the Colony.” A few days after, at the instance
of the Governor, it counterinands the execution of
said order, at the same time declaring that it fully
entertains the opinions which had influenced its
action.

At the same on of Aprill7,a member makes
@ motion that the Saict Domingo deputies be in- !
atructed to absent themselves from the sessions of |

the Nanonal Assemnbly, and to await the comple. i oe . ; ws

tion of the Colonial Assembly's action, which part of s Lint Domingo shall submit propositions
would be transnitted to them in order that, if it| concerning commercial and other common rela
were expedient, they mizht obtain for it the sane. | tions; and the decrees Which shail be made by the
tion of the Kine and of the Nixional Ass-mbly. Assembly, in those matters, shall not be enforced
This motion, after due consideration, was atopted 0 the Freneh part of Saint Dambizo, unl they
at ore of the following sessions, Not a sinule. shall have been agreed to by the General Assembly

sented bert dhe contnaeditue parties; and,

the National Assembly contravening the principles
thereinaker set forth, could vet bind Saint Demin:
xo, she neither having been cousalted upon, nor

its Representatives, or-

General Assembly, in case of urgent necessity, and
with reference to internal administration, shall be
deemed a provisional law; and in suelo ease, said
enacunent shall be submitted to che

Governor:

his being notified thereof, shall cause it tu be pro-
mulgated, and shall attend to its enforcement, or
“Ne shall apprise the General Assembly of his views
in regard to the contents of said enactment,
Art. 4. Phe neevssity which shall determine the
‘provisional enforcement: shiath be decided by a
separate decree, Which can ondy be made by a two-
thirds majority voting ona call of the House.
Art.5. 1 the Governor-General communicates
‘his views, they shall be entered immediately npon

the journal of the General Assembly. The deerce

The deeree, and the Ge
ion thereon, shall be laid before the Assembly
for diseutgsion at three ditferent: sessions + the
Question in reference to sustaining or rescinding
the deeree stall be taken by veas and nays

The minutes of the discussion shall be sizned by
all the members present, and shall designate the
number voting on cither side of the question, If
two thirds of those voting are in faver of the de-
cree, it shall be promulgated by the Governor.
General, and enforced immediately.

Art. 6. Inasmuch as law ought to accord with
the will of those for whom itis made, the French

views, yernor-Generats

apn

ses.

:

Peountry, and exereising onty a subontinate and |

Whervas, in all that concerts dhe commercial |

pand ether relations common Co Saint Domdase and |

cTormity with the wishes, wants, and by te cou |

PO Wheras, every deere which might be mode by |

The General Assembly, aner deliberation. at its

Art3. Every legislative enactment, nade by the

General, who, within ten day's from the time of |

shall then be reconsidered, with reference to those |

| Wavrras Sirrise Beata or Daraarerien,

'SOMMEROE OF HAYTL WITH ‘THE U.8.|

April 2 to April
Cheeee, Ma. Fon

i IS Peokiman stivet, New York, dan, 0, i462. Pen Flour, bits 1v07
tie : ; ne 7 : ' re oy

| Aa Einigtation to Taya the aext No. TL The Portal Now York Pork. oo A ope, colle... Wnt
PSV Statiant vessel, the Thetis Veatae . Volaeen, Ihde, Jf Sagar, bam RO:
i : CU Ce foAd, Capt Cutta, wall sitl Soon ; ' ’ . (9 ; 5
: sins . : . ' , vbacto, bates... 972 Pbits, tha... 6 DT
tet Now Voth atrer about the lather dane | Eitportant Btatinticn for Oongronamen, iat tee te Maina Mews c one 6 LAT
homey for Portatel tines, direct fom whieh port . aver . boned _ oan um min os. 4
; SUE TANES | Wi De forwarded to Aquin, St. Mark ny we UY MELROSE, thee, bbls, : : a 10 Mae, Vales leeeee wee
| or Miniotine, as they preter Conntled for The Palin aud Palin Matehes, ea... 1 Candies, baa... 1:
| A Vessel wall sail tor Age as, where preparations ow Heri ye cceeeese ee DBD BOW, cece cceee ee LEAD

awe being ade foran Aimerican setticment, about | few mouths ayo, we presented to our readers Codtiah, ad 404 Lumber, tt 14,000

the frarot Febrnary nest waatisticn) return of the commerce between Hoge | ACH, Gis ine LUE, AE... bah

} . Pickled Nah, bbtn... 177 Leather, manfd, ca. 1s

wren Thay ti, durlig the drat alx inonthe of dhe
nesent year. Tn thatardele, whieh occupied near
¥ tive colons of The Ping and Palin, we showed
hat the ex ports from Boston tothe ports of Uaytl,
anbraced: nearly every artlele prodaced ino the
vilted States; and dhatthe Claytlans are among
he very best cistomers which that port posscascs.
Vhe mere enumeration of those ex ports ran throwgh
neavly every letter of the alphabet, and occupied
Uaee and a ball columns of closely printed nat.
ter. Extensive, however, aa those facts proved the
commerce of Boston and Laytl to be, they showed
nerely a fractional partol the commercial dealings
between the two couutries. Between New York,
Philadelphia, and Baldinore, a geent trade Is also
carricd on; und up to the establishment of the
blockade, it was extended to New Orleans, Wil-
nington, N, C., and one or two other ports on the
Southern coast.

For tho fase fiscal year ending: June 30, 1860,
the exports to) Hayti from the United States,
amounted to $2, 678,682, and our imports from that
country amounted to $2,062,7235 nud itis believed
that when the next fiscal returns are published they
willshow a very decided increase over those ae
counts,

tcis interesting to glance over the returns which
we publish, if for no other purpose than te observe
what remarkably varied demands Hayti inakes
upon the manufacturing and industrial resources of
the Cnited States. Our exports to other countries
nay be much more valuable and much more ex-
tensive, but we question if they include such @ very
marked diversity, in nearly every kind of article
produced or manufactured in this country. As
will be seen, the chief exports are Immoer, lard, but-
ter, codfish, cheese, flour, soap, pork, dried fish,
hams, rice and tobacco. Of lard, the quantity ¢x-
ported was nearly a quarter of a inillion Ibs.; of
codfish, there were nearly 6100 quintals; of cheese,
upwards of 24,000 Ibs.; of flour, nearly 23,000 bar-
rels; of soup, nearly 25,000 boxes; of hams, 16,000
coat cates : Ibs.; of dried tish, nearly 12,000 boxes; of vice,
varied wridags from and about the colored race as 2,900 barrels and 246 derces; and of tobacco, 1,500
bates, in addition tu 1,592 Ibs. of the manufactured
article,

These shipments were conveyed in both Atneri-
can and foreign vessels, but the latter comprise

The Rise Browns, (tit), Capt Larabee,
Will probably tequia to New York about the 1th
| er Vebrimiy, aud: be ready to saiben the ean af

February,

Che Fosrite Caen (dritish), Capt. dacksen,
WN probably setavn about the ister Mare. and
sailabout the fOr or that menih,

The Hires AtGusta, (ieitish), Capt Ce >
Will probably return about dhe lath of Mareh, ace
saul Mare 2, ”

Albot these vessels are permanently fitted up for
eHiants,

AQ persons desiring to sail at any of these dives,
naw requested: to ave carly notice, personally or by
letter, to James Redpath, General Agent, Ea
Rureanol Pinigration, New York; or George Law:
renee, dt, Room 3, Anthracite Building, Uhiadet-
Phing or it they dive in Cuan, to dsaae YS Cury,
atthe Western Branch Burean, Windsor, C W., in
loorder that passages for thent may be secured in
i oadvance, Hiaky Mires,

i Corresponding Seoretary.

Aaytinn Bavean Departuient,
BOSTON, SATURDAY, DEC. 2s, L861.

NOTES OF THE MOVEMENT
Haviias Boncat or Exionarion,
Boston, Dee vs, Isl, |
AN ExtRA Haydias Lear.—This Department
has become so crowded, that, in order to keep up
With the current evs and requirements of the
Movement, we lave been obliged to issue an Extra
Leat of Phe Pine and Pala this week. It will re-
i pay perusal Never befure, we venture to say, was
j there a paper which published so much, and such
f
i
!

this journal Certainly never before was there a
journal chat bas bad so many colored contributors.
Nore Prom 4 Hosrox Eararaxt.—Mrs. Ann

Meladoe writes trom St. Mark, Novy. 15, to. her only asinall per centage of the whole. Of the
sister in Bostons— “The Government is very good | American vessels, 14 were brigs, and 17 were

schooners, making Blin all, Their average ton-
nage was about 200 tons, or an ageregate of 6,089
tons, and the number of sailors employed amount:
ed to 223,

OF the foreign vessels, only seven were chartered
during the period of which we speak, and their
tonnage was smaller than those sailing under the
American flag. ‘Phey consisted of three brigs and
fonr schooners, and their tonnage amounted to
1,206 tons; their crews averaged eight men cach,
or an deeregute of

Most of these vessels, it should be stated, bring
back cargoes o€ Haytian produce, consisting, for
the most part of lozwood, cotlee, cocoa, mahoga-
ny, &¢.; and we intended to have given some sta-
Ustics about our imports from that country; but
on inquiring at the Custom House we learn that
the returns are not yet made up. There can be no
doubt, however, that in the Haytinn trade the ves-
sels belonging to the United States monopolize by
fur the largest share, A Haytian official authority
suysi—"'The exportations of Hayti employ annual:
ly between 500 and 600 vesoels, giving a total of
about 70,000 tons. Of that number of vessels 25
sail from ports in the United States, and their ton-
nage is estimated at fully 30,000 tons. But as the
Haytian method of computation gives iuvariably
between 25 and 300 per cent. tess than the ship's
register, we cnust add at least 25 per cent, to the
above figures, in order to arrive at the proper ¢s-
timate. Under these circumstances the tonnave of
the United States ships would represent nearer

tothe emigrants. We havea house,* rent free
Ihave alarge room inthe Government House. 1
staid becatse it was the best place In town, near
the market, and near the fountain, and has a large
yard, We have ado-tur, and all the medicines,
tree of expense, and money piven besides, and
if we were to die they would bury us decently.
I get along better than EF expected to. 1 have
some work, and sell {sume of the things we brought
to trade with.

The Agent allows | us to stay here because we expeot
the remainder of the 1 unily.

PaUGRATION Pom ith Bermtpa [stanps.—
Eugenius H. Casi sy, a colored citizen of Bermuda,
who emigrated io Hayti list: Spring, and has re-
turned to his fcrmer hume, writes under date of
Noy. 24, from Norwich, that there had been un-
favorable accounts received there about the Ber-
muda color. y in Hayti which had occasioned great
distress ar aony their friends, but that it had) been
removed "by his statements, so different from pre-
vious ste ories, and that he thinks there will be
another emigration from Bermuda carly next year,
consid cably larger than the former one, Mr.
Casey says he had been requested to call incetings

© ; of its Representatives.
mem)er was found, in the whole assembly, 10 pro- | of its Representatives

fons igs . : ve Art. 7. Articles of subsistence, i rte .
test azainst these manifestations of indepen lence. Art. 7. Articles of subsistence, imported throuu) ,

April 9 to
Flour, bbla oe...
Pork... see AD
Codtlhh, qtld.... 66.120
Pickled tinh, bts... P00

April ii to

Flour, bbls... 6... 0
i Sh re |

April 16,

Laued, Monee eee BO
Mice, dba. cee.
Mutter, thas... eee
Ibread, pkya oe...

Dried Nah, tas... 0) Domeathes, Daten... ..1%
Tobacco, bales...... 410 Suyar et. .... WO
Soup, bxa.... 0... .500 Lumber, ft......05,0%
Candles oo... 85

April 30,

Paint, kega.... cc
Furniture, cases..... 02)

Pork cee cc cee eee LAO Tobacco, bales.... 62.47
Lard, Ibs........, 2,885 Pepper, baa... 20
Rive, bbl. Drs, phys... bs
Suyur, Wxs.c...... cee 4% Butter, fos oe... OES
Codtish, qtls....... 140 Pongnes, bbls... Ad
Domestics, bates.....510 Hats, ths......00-.. 2i0
April 40 to May 7.
Empty bbls, No.....1000 Corn meal, bbls... ... 15
Oars. cee eee P20 eatin eee oe BO
Flour, bbls..... 0.00. SM) Suvar, boxes. ........ 4
Corn, bu......... 8,400 Dornesties, bales... ...2
Rye flour, bbls... 2... 20° Burter, Ws. ..... 0... BON

Van feet Indength, aad dalag from 25 tO fer in|
helebt, with depth badow the level of the river
Of fram 400 ta ddd feet, Conucnenthy, w galler
Of Abate would open a tletd of GAP cutie)
feet nbeve it. Shika wontd eanploy one honda In|
borcrn Jive yeare to remove it, ad pumping me |
chines could then he eaiployed, if a nnturnl dosing |
Waa not dhecoverdl, which be not protable. Ilies .
minber of Iaborers above meadoned eauld pro. WAten for The Ving ond Velo.
duce, annually trot ud ta 2AM tuneofore. The! prong the muny chanexe for enterpriee and 5
exbatcneeol several other tinea ol Copper te kaw: duetss, aides by # etvall capital, Hayti eflorde oe
but our agent bal neither the tine nor meana ne, paraileies Opportunities to wrrlecrowers The
ceeary for tick exacdantion, The report conceny ¢ niouutsinn ape fen: and alauyd ji Waterenutecs,
ing gold waslang je nleo very aatiaartosy, BO). gud all that fe neversary by eo-ure slundant weadth
HAH apeciinena have been recived, As the nv-t ie iw hare the “right meni eluxpraicing aid
era whieh sre charged with gold, are chiefly Rie! wool-srowing require Cumparetively lite ekill or
stein the ening districts where copper miner ate! byogk kiuwhetye: sanetent warhfulner and i
found, the work could be conducted with wery Hale c tiene jAterveranee ere tle: chief neceearva. With
capital, Deaides, Woraight In aupervieed by the ea very anal Hock of chuire, but hardy anisals
Kineers fo charge of the mites of copper. i fepeciaily Ustere that fluurich, fret on mountsine,
In 1825, the Government of Hayt tnade a cone! ty Greed trom, 16 the pouree of a few memBOnE. &
tact with Mr. Hendriks and gave his ponecesion ! flock euffic seth in vie pied o beedeotie yeveyue
of the mines for fifteen years, A company war: could be obtainest-: the Knouwledes neseeeary wihe
formed at that tine to work therm, Wut the agent, ; Proper, care and aitention w Shick would beve
appointed hy the directors, did not go near the deen prvluaily and perforly ar quired.
tines, He sent the workmen bark wo buropess ‘Te preeent prvspect for the Vernasde for wok
upon their arrival, and the caterpe ie wan abandote | renacre ite grewth bighi is UBragilee for rem.
cd. Atthis ting it wan agreed that the Haytian : yerative relurne—the pthee varying fred on we
Govemmmnent should have a thicd of the product of) evite for the very uate: w A ned 33 “eS rad ;
the mines, After a minute examination, @ report: pound tor chuier grin This je inde wndent af
was tiade, which was prescnticd Wy Sie. Michaels whe carcace whieh mey he made te Wha andes _
Wiliams of Cornwall, and three other pentlemen : profite, if Ihe beret lreods ene eedenney I: Ue
who were added to that company. ‘The Weleh muttoss, that ie, the fheals Of the shee
Jn 1825, Mr. Hendriks solicitet from the Haye: grows in the MUNN tse ol Wales, i higbiv a
fian Goverment a renewal of the contract with & i wetel by he epicures of England, («bo une ae
modification; and in consequence Of the answer’ Know lecged as baring Aeime to be cart deen)
which he received, the asenls, OF whoin We have jg commande vers high privece in the Undon
spoken, were rent to Havii. ‘marke, frequently Ieing ao'd for ae nated ue 25

THE WOOL TRADE IX HAYTL
A CHASCE Yok PMNGKAD TE.

o--~

Large Fortunes fur homsebody,

May 7 to May 21,
Pork, bbis.......... Tohaceo, bales. ......20

The Governinent of the Republic has given a new
and favorable contract fur 25 years, in the follow. !
ing tering : ;

“The duty upon copper being only 5 per cent...
and upon gold and silver LO per cent. the importa: |
tion of all inachinerv stall be free. The exporta-:
tion of ore and inctals free, with permission to cut:
the wood tecessary for the use of the mines, for
building purposes, fuel, &., &c., as well as the right ;
to cultivate a certain portion of land jor vegetables, |
&c., free of charge. We presuince that these ad-:
yantayes are not ordinarily obtained for similar j
emterprises. In addition to these advantages, Ue ;
privilege has been given of renewing the contract ;
at the expiration of the 25 years. By the arrange :
ments Which have been enteral into, and we inay
say conchided, the concession wall be extended to

| 104) conte per pound, whiie the attention that the

frower has paid to the anneal ie iat like mevre
fhau consisted fn catching aud euding it to er-
LET,

This breed, by the by, would be x very valuable
One ty introduce inte the Island. The ‘anime! js
very siuall in tize, porceeses an etundence of foxy
wool, and, ae before stated, yields exquirite meat,
and requirce dite or no cate beyond prowetion
from uther animals. It puretsee 2 remarkably
long tal, the bones of which extend some tight to
ten inches from the body, and neany wach the
ground,

The “Southdowns” of England, wo, bred chiefiy
on the Sussex hills, gre profitable wo @ degree, pro-
ducing abundant flocks, of choice wools, and high-
ly nutritious, delicate food,

Butter. ......0.062. 522
. May 28 to
Rice, bbis..... .. 92
Pickled tish.........212
Dried fish, bxs... 21,800
ROMP... eee eee LUMO
Codtish, qtls....... 459
Butter, Ibs... i
Cheese. ......
Paint, phys...
Ilardware, cases....
Nails, keys... ..
Shot..
Hams
Lard.

odd

29

Flour, .......0008- Cheese, ....2.204..8,004
Codtish, qus.. .....825  Suyar, boxes... .. es)
Lard, Ibs.. 2.0... .17,454 Beef, bbls.......... 104
Thums... ..........1,501 Tobacco, hhds........2
Soap, boxes.......2,000 Pepper, bays.........15
Domestics, bates.....69° Drugs, pkys........
Nails, kegs ..........65 Rope, coils... i
Paint, pkys.........200 Pickled fish, bbls... ..71
Linseed oil pals... .. 233 Niece... cece ee . 99
Butter, tbs........3,216

May 2I to May 28,
Codfish, qus........478 Soap, cases........1,950
Pork, bbls.......... 220° PKU fish, bbis......160
Dried fish, bxa....1,500
Flour, bbIs. 0.0.0... 2)
Rice. cc... eee. oe OB
Fobacco, bales....... 78 Shingles, No.....25,600
Lard, th3..........2,900 Suyar, boxes..........5

Carriazes, No........-2
June Il.

Candles, bxs........
Tobacco, mfd ths.. £1,502
Flour bbis.... Wd)
Bread, pkys... 00...
Empty bbls, No....
Furniture, pk
Lumber, feet
Copper, infd. pkgs. .
Tobacco, bales...
Shingles, hdls....
Domestics, bales.
Oil, gals....... +.
Suu, Dxs....

ninety-nine years, for the Copper mines already ex: |
amined, and of which we have spoken, as well as |
for the gold-washing in one of the stcuons most:
abounding in this metal. The expenditures neces ;
sary for the prosecution of these researches having
exceeded the amount placed at the disposal or the!
cominittee, the surplus has been advanced by
Mesors. Wright, Green and Hendriks; which ad-
vances, and the sums entrusted to the comusnittes, |
amount to £4000. The commitice hope that this
sum will not appear extravagant when the work
to be accomplished is considered, ;

It is now proposed to form a company for the i
working oF the Maymon and Saint Christopher ;
mines, as wellas for gold-washing in their vicinity, |
if this washing affords sutticient inducement to:
the stockholders.

The company will pay Mr. Hendriks (fer the
right of working) such sum as he and the director !
shall agree upon; but this sum is to be pavabte |

Any book on the subject, of which ubere sre
many excellent ones. to be liad at a very snus] vet,
will deepart an amouut of infortnetion 10 the imend-
ing migrant, of incalculable value to himsel!, and
o the yreat Nation with which it is his pride and
pleasure to be about to identify and IROUTPUTLIE
himscit.

The sabject is one of importance, and yonr col-
umns, 1 presume, will be open to any practical sug-
gestions that your readers may bave make Upon
it.

Iris said that there are nearly 24,0%),005 pounds
of wool on its war to this country at the preterit
momean—G (06,009 poonds from England sione.—
Here's a chance tor independence! “Who'll avail
themselves of it? G. &.

FOR HAYTL

Pork, bbis.......
June 1s,

Lumber, ft.
Shooks, p
Furniture, eas
Machinery, pk
Rice, tes
Soap, t
Tickled fish, pkg
Codtish, qtls.....
Hams, lbs.....
Domestics, cases. ....

June 18 to dune 25.

Flour, bbls..... Codtish, qtls.
Beet... 1... Dried fish, b»
Pork...... Cheese, lbs
Rive. .... . Candle, t
Rice, tes... . Hams, th

Beef, bbls...
June lt

Flour, bbls......
Beet. .....

to
>

Linseed oil, gals. ....19
Lard, ibs 15,202
>

th

Raisins...
Cheese, Ibs.
Butter .......
Tobacco, bales.

chietly in Whe company’s stuck, Whereby he will:
only be beflefited by the result of the company’s
snecess, The capital of the company being £140,-
GUO represented by 7000 shares of £20 each,

The deposit apon the shares is £2 per share.
The liabilities of the company will be received st
par tothe amount of one halfor the capital stock;
that is to say, obligations to the amount of ten
shares, loxether with £10, being equivalent to ten
new shares, and otherwise in proportion. The;
cash advanced being represented in the same man-
ner absorbs at once 2000 certificates of the proposed '
company.

The management of the affairs of the company:
shall be left to the control of a director, in order to !
realize the desire of the stockholders to act openly |
and equitably with each other and the public. The |
originator of this undertaking, and the exceutive ;
committee, that is to say, those af them now in:
office (Mr. Ragner being no longer a member, and |
Mr. Wildey having deceased), are desirous that the |
oNice of director should be tilled from among the
stockholders in order to make room for those who
may wish to withdraw or to remain, with the un-

; Face, is

Daxvitve, Nov. 1%, i872.
[From the Montour American, Danviie. Pa., Nov. #3.)
Dr. Bronrer;—In accordance with my original

; design to give von correct Hist of the Haytian

Emizration clab, as well as the period of their em-
barkation from their native land, where ther heve
experienced proscription and mjnstice, on account
of wicir natural identification with the poor or
pressed slaves of the United Sates: to 2 lend
where ther expect to test the scundness of the
theory of many of their professed friends in this
conntry; viz: that the only hopcof the colored
i a Government exclusively their own.
Inow inform sou that the rear colamn of the
club, consisting of the following Jetsons, Thomas
Fields, wife and five children; Mr. Hacket and
two children; James L. Blake and wite: Mrs. Jack-
son and grand-daughter; Mrs. Barry, Jefferson
Ross, and Samael Stewart, expect 16 eave Dan-
ville on Monday, the 25h inst., for New York via
Philadelphia, from which port ther expect 10 sail
for Haxtion the 27th inst. Ther keave wizb feel-
ings of gratitude for the kind offices of their
friends, and feelings of pity fer those ho have

Of the rights of tnan: and

Canter ts sulmited toany other sanction than

On the 26th of April, the Provincial Assembly of
the North causes copies of tle decrees of the Sth
and 28th of March, which had reached the Cape by
a merchant vezsel, to be laid before the Assembly

at Sain: Mark.

The Assembly at Saint Mark received the-- *
syneg witt Yew OTA ia..

auks-be addressed to

° next day it ix re-

shanks, the reading

+ having cooled its |

was never sent. \

i

fees Of the Natlon-
“proper suthori-
* requires time to !

read the instruc:
avered from the |
At the opening
3310 the Agsein-
hich he himself !
wate Of the Elec-

est.
we Gevaherie, President of the Assem: |

wz, in repiy to Count Feinier, said: “Would that
the members of thia Assembly were equally as
gore! Frenchmen, jealona to resume the exercise of
their righta, after the manner of their brethren in i
Enrope; wont) that they mightendeavor to lay

the foundations of a vood Constitntion, and that |
they micht have confidence in your zeal and

promptress in executing the decrees which might
emanate from the Assembly.”

ft waa impossible to have evaded the subject
with more hanzhtiness and impudence, ‘

by aceeree bearing date April 17, also, the A3-
sermbis of Saint Mark, following out the strange
ilea thay private communications are doubtless in-
Vielable, but that the correspondence of the ad- |
ministrators could nor be inelasted in the category
of privace
and parkages addressed ty the adininistrators, ap.

romntinnications, decreed: “That letrers

fearing wo Ye ministerial packages, or belonwing
to the administration, should be opened by the
President, in presence of the Assembly.”

Finaliv, at its sessions from the 20th to the 27th
of April, following the example of the National As-
sembly, vhich it 3eemned desirous to rival, it de-
clare the persons of its members inviolable; ap-

pointed a Cornmittee on Reports, on Laws, on
Commerce, on Finance, on Agricaliace, and on
Correspondence, Et thos invested itself with all
power. Iteven decreed the appointment of a Com.»
mittee of Inqniry for all offences comrnitted against
the Assembly, its mnembers or its archives; putting
therm on the tame footing with high trensen.
Other committees were formed at subsequent sit-
tings, ane h ag thatof the Armed Forces; this last
waa the least active of any of the committcea, not
“ithstanding it was the most essential one at that

af zedition and disorder, in which brute forre :
Se authority of law. When the Assemlidy !

% discovered this error, it was too

tirne
aanrpedl ..
of Saint Mar.

law.

‘The report of the Oe
was presented on the 22.
Assembly of Saint Mark, afte.
deliteration, unanitmoualy cendere
decree and preamble, on the 2th:

OV nerena, the rights of the French part 6.
Dominga, although fora long time ignores! ..

samittes on the Constitution
tof May, 1700, and the ;
s four days’ solenmn
Y the folowing

* Saint

ud \

-eyntton, 7et exist in all their integrity; andl

wear The eporh of a tiniversal regeneration :

oh empire is the only accasion in which warded te
oenitive and relative, can be deter- sembly. On

‘President of the.

legislate for its internel National Assembly

ry
Whe
in the Frey
all righta, beth ,
minelina jastand,
Whereas, the right te
gerrerninent belonga bqsentian,
the Freneh part of Saint Domine,
in France, from which tia acparaten
Inenie interval; and
Wherena the representatives af Saint Doming

‘avariable manner; and

“oe and necessarily to

canned refingnish thia bapreseriptile clght with ¢ gy),
i

ont violating thei moat sacred duty, which tate
prorride wise and beneficent laws for their const.
fnenta, and

Whereas, sich Jaws can only be made within the
Islanct itself, inthe fest place, on account of the

peentiarity of the eliteate, and the difference of

peepnlation, rianners, and enstains; and, alse, be
eantee thes enly whe are interested In the law can
antherrise ita enactioent: and

Whereas, the National Assembly cannot legislate
for the internal Gervernment of Saint Dermings,
withent overturning the principles eatabtished by
ita fret decrees, atl especially by tho declaration

if

Wherens tha dorcesns, erannating from tha Ag.
petits of tha Representatives of Saint Dominge,

Phecessity, shall not be included under the heac

of

idecrees of the 8th and

After a suimnroary staten.
too fittle knows | that the General Assembly
“hz an ite | of March Sth as spprobatory o1
i bases, saving a few differeness demite
7 onasess then, he remarks, that “the decrees

+ Stine, se

of Saint Do,
attachment of th.
ter... and

j ordinary relations between Saint Domingo t!

and

here ps

Sold s

ty! cxptain his sentiments about Hast, and that he | 40,000 tons than 30,000 tons, American measure- | Buttes, fhs.........8,181 Domestics,
should lose no time in deuing so. ‘iver the right | Ment. . Soap, bxs........ 4,150 Bags, bales...
somes uppermost.” 5 . [ec would be an casy matter, theref to pro- | Lard, Ibs. . 19814 Shingles, bdls.......460
¢ _ PI one . ceed to argue upon the policy oft: ding the | Sugar, bxs...........55 Lumber, feet... ..20,000
—We promised to publish an account of the | political existence of one °° stomers; | Drugs, pkgs....... Tobacco, bales. ..... 170
mobbing of Mr. Spencer, at Chytham, C. W. bute wear quite willir ich wo | Pickled fish, bbls...

June 25 to July 2.

i France, but the decrees which may be m ge jn | We now wish to retract it, Let bygones be hy-
| that reapeet by the General Asser! ' ao be | genes. ‘The friends of the Haytinn. Movement can The toll J \ Hour, bbls: «. tees met Beans, bush. set ee eee
reconsidered if the (+ - ~| well affurd to be gencrous, The recent. letters te foc anuary 1 to) Codfish, qtls “10 Sugar, bxs
en ony | . a eeent letters July 2, of ¢ Dried fish, boxe Lard, Ibs.....
suyenatic: + ces, | fom emigrants, so numerons, and so encourag- Pickled tish, tbls. Batter, lbs.
all | ing, will soon, if we but act Kindly toward) present] flour, . 1,959 | Pork bbls........, Candles, bx......
a y | Opponents, convert all of them who ave honest, | Beef... .. 2. AO | Bee? bbls. ....... 6.2.6 Lumber, ft...
Article 5th. "| who sincerely desire to know the truth, into ad- | Pork. .... vagy | Rice bbls........... Sonp, 6x.........
Art. 8 Every decree passed: ovens yee + at teuet uy Pickled fie ova | er
sembly and executed pres! “anally, in case on ‘ ‘ saute or, We feast, prevent Men | peed ths REC TT trae,
° ‘ . syeDrese re 1 ne
urent necessity, shall, notw anding, be imme- wally mnistebresenting it, With | Codfish,
’ : eest Tet us bay
diately transmitted for’ ru... sanciion; and if] + ea 18
the king refuse his consent to such decree, the en- “ Tt PNYe* | Flos ‘S460
“a i we TUE sew aegeaeedel yT Bag ") ‘ : . _ 0 “_
forcement of it shall be suspended as soon as such then wa ah z ; see i Ug, RE Ny, fee bard! Wer LYS euros Leese eee ove
stoenlly +f . » Gene others, and To shalluse aliany iitlvence to get as | Por eee ard, sen eeeenes .. 30,000 .
refusal shall be legally nade known to the General oe C nossibly ean, for abe friends ® Cor “ Beans, bush... i quive' 8307 Corn, bushels $.100
\sseanbly ae ucwhkt interested, iv the matter, ant appear | 2! 00 Butter, tbs Candies, boxe 77697 Gorn'meal, barrels. 243
. .. + spine w interested j , . - f nro reeeeee t ts, boxes. ..... 08 « ¢ arrels. ... de
‘Art. 9. The members of the General Assembly | be symewhut ineerestee in me mes and appear | pj Ts... AG Lumber, ft.....-. "NSCS. eee 83 Carriages... wea
shall be elected for two years; each election shall | have a favora ve CpmMEn OF Ty u. . ae 15 to dan, 22, Cheese, Ib. ...... 24,576 Copper, mtd pkgs... 24
be for the whole number of members. —No person will, henceforth, be appointed as a] FI +++ .825  Tobaceo, bhd....... Cordage, packages. . 10
* Travelling Avent of the Movement: unless he de- |? " Tobacco, bales.......49 | Domestics, bales,....31 Drugs, eases. ....... 333
6. The General Assembly decrees, that as the “t aan ‘ $ : Surar, boxes seine ve : : on me
Art 10. ‘ i. | signs ro to Hayti himself. This note a . ae Sugar, boxes, “6 cases. ...........051 Dried fish, boxes ..11,725
foregoing articles constitute a part of the Consti- | SNS to Bo to Tay Sen. 5 hole Ina cere 1 piokted fisa, ls. . 2 Wine, cases. . 60 | Dry goods, cases. .....7
tution of the French part of Saint Domingo; they | seme Cine, letter paper, and postage. Suap, box veel, Lumber, ft.......20,167 / Flour, barrels. ....22,706 Furniture, eases, .. . 259
all be sent imietiately to France, to be presen: A Morro ror HAYTIAN Eaicratrosists.— | Rice, bbls...... +... 182 Shingles... .. +o. 15,000 | Paddock, quintals.,.106 Tam, tbs... 0... 10485
shall be sent namnennte . i ’ ‘s * “Where liberty dwells, (here is ny country.” Lard, Ibs. 6.0. ---4,675 Dry pools, cases. ..... 7} Hardware, eases... .. 70)
ed, for acceptance, to the National Assembly and ' : “s uous .t Butter .......4 65 -2,253 Domestics ..........145 | [ron, infd pk

to the King; they shall also be sent to all parishes
and districts of the French part of Saint Domingo.
Notifications of said articles shall also be furnished
to the Governor-General.” :

The enactment of this deerce 34 only the artien-
late reproduction of the principles laid down in the
preamble,

ft is said that Daney and Larchevesque-Thiband
were its principal authors: this would prove that
these two men were ag able as they were danger
ons it will be renembercd that both were lawyers,
the one Attorney-General, and the other Counselor
to the Superior Couneit of the Cape.

This decree was, in reaticy, a declaration of inde-
pendence, Without throwing off the mask entirely,
amd raising the standard of revalt, the Assembly of
Saint) Mark contd not more expressly antonnice
that the Colony of Saint Domingo was a State ine
dependent of France, subject to the same Ring,

obut having the sole right to make and administer

its own Jaws. The subsequent regulation of the
ordinary relations between the two conntries, de

paceeptance by the National Asseobly and the

King's sanction were, itis true, reserved, Bution
the first point, it was understood that it should be
rented by the contracting parties on a footing of
equality, and with regard to any feeds arrange:
tnents and on the other two points, the reservation
was nade in such away as to indicate that the
want of acceptance or sanction would not prevent
the carrying ont of these pretended constitutional
bases,

In the opinion of the Assembly, the decree onght
to be considered as definitive; the National Asser.

“bly being wnable to reject it without violating its

own principles,

The Assembly of Saint Mark received from the
Assembly of the North, on the 26th of April, the
28th Mareh. Conn
Peinier, 9 few days after, officially notified the As-

of

serobly of them; yet they were not entercd upon

the minutes until the first of Jnne--doubtless to

inake it appear that the Assembly was not aware of
these two decrees until after it had adopted that of
its constitutional bases.

What pitiful fraud This
is the way in which the Colonial legislators, not
having the ability boldly to take possession of
ewer, Sought to purloin it.
“a dave after, the Assembly of Saint Mark for-
“a constitutional bases to the Natlonal As-
that occasion, the Marquis Cadusch,
Assaintly, wrote a letter to the
~ masterpicee of hypocrisy!
ont of its acts, he suid
inlered the decree
onstitutional
fed by doenl
i March
tof

‘J.

had been unanimously adapted on the t-
far as lt did not infringe: upon the rights
caine. “Tle protests the inviolable
» Aaserably for the mother coun:
-mepect (itl aubimniasion to the

ite 4 hanke and

lawa.”’ “armed
(70 ne CONeiNeD., he
wee toms
-- Where [ace a house farnished with .
papers, there PF oseedatelligence, and well-din
Children; bt if there are no hooks or papers, ,
Children are lenornnt, not profieate. - frank lin,

~~ He diligent inthe practice of what you know

you would koow mere,

~He who puta nhad conatretlon upodn coud,
act, revenda his awn wickedness at heart.

Hvery heart haa a secret drawer, the sping of

which Ia only known to the owner.

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

—The General Agent bas to repeat to emigrants
in Haye, that be can fill no orders whatever for
goods of any kind unless they are accompanied by
the cash. He does not desite to do any of this
business atall Datif he can accommodate emi-
grants or friends by making purchases for them,
he willdo s0 without charging any commission,
triless the order is fora large amount,—in whieh
case he will hand it over to an honest) comntission
merchant, whe will make the usual charges,

Tt will not) pay te take horses from Canada to
Haye. Better sell them even ato half price, and
spend the money in New York ino buying: agri-
cultural iplements, provisions, clothing, or seeds,

twee :

MEETING IN OANADA.
Bexctrosx, © W., Dee. 4, S61,
Mr. Faoes Reprint, Agent Haytian Biean of

Emisration, Boston, Mitss.-

fran Sieve Liespecttiliy submit te vou minutes
of nnceting helbbon Wednesday evening, 1th, inst.
inthis place, by Mr, William Watkins,

Time having arrived, Rev. Thomas Stringer was
called tothe chair, after whieh the meeting was
opencd with prayer by the Rev Willian King,

Theehairman then introduced Mr. Watkins (othe
audience, who stepped forward: and in bis usually
cloquent manter commenced his discotise by say.
ing that he hoped the adience would not consider
itegotistical iu him stating that tor venrs he had
devoted his tine, with pero tongie, to the in-
terest of the people with whom he is connected,
He Sheutd codeaver to explain to them the advan
faves offered them by the Hnaytian Government,
andl the disadvantages they Inve to eontend with
incvemaining in the United States ar Canada, He
hoped, asa thinking jeaple, they would not be
prejuliced against any subject’ offered them, anil
they bad fully beard and considered it,

He portrayed in glowing words their degraded
condition, caused by the prejudice incessantly leap
ec upon thems and said that in ndvising them to
Cmivrate to Tlayti, be did so with the full belief of
their bettering their condition. Thatin going to
Hayti they would only be carrying out the noble
principle they exhibited in coming to Canada,
where they could have more wind and water, tle
showed that our position in the Upited Statey was
toulesirable, &e.5 and that the Canadas are. preter
able to the Caited States, aod as fir removed in
some respects as heaven is from hell; vet, Gait the
Croadas are undesirable, because we fia the sane
prejudice on necount ot color; that they refiese to
seliavcofored lady acupofteaatarefreshynentsaloon
in ‘Toronto; that there was not evenasecond class
hetel in London in whieh a colored min ean be ave.
commoriteds that law is overrated by publie sen:
tient, and prechides any possibility of colored
nen obtaining any other than secondary positions,
That we are nuinerically weak, and that white men
willabvays hold amajority, and consequentty we
conmotever sociatly and politically obtain an eqant
position with white men, whieh enuses a issatis-
faction We inst, therefore, co and built apa
creat blnek nationality, whose reflex influences
will be felt by our colored Inethren of the United
States; explained the difference between the old
colonization society introduced by Clay ard Dash.
roll Washington, and the present plan of eminva-
tion,

Ile then spoke of the productivencss, &e., ke.

Cthe soil of Uneti, and the inducements hel

wy the Government to emizrants, Te sided
out. oe Pavthins believed that the greatness
that Urey consisted in its Immense standing av:

of a cont,
wey; bunt tant
nnd sebools, shies
ship. We invited th
the soil; he sald that hn
the put pose o Re een
vive them to follow Tia ex ,
te enerifice al little, After fay eh oe he heuer,
which wae crowded with andnteresth y " Ki
reef of two hours, he reared: fi yeh ate
oolnege ontise.
act i by My, King, secouted by
fo pive the able epeaker ay ste ot
ne soaponied to freely hy the wll
wee then onlered to be sentto

cobstte ation,
1. Beorr, Becretary.

Getfratd has dotroduced agriculture
sing bis wisdom and stitesman-
canto ge there and be fords: of
hae sacrifietd much for
veble wauhl not ad.
Wes he advised: them

8).
lente.
It was.

Mr. Hatter,

timnka, whieh w

ener, ‘Phe minutes

The Pine andl Palin for,
W

rere ms
ee BO

Hams
Cheese........

Flour, bbls. .... 6. 2,008
Reef, Ape 6]
Pork o......00.
Coutish, qtls...
Haddock
Piekled fish, bbl
Dried fish, bxs
‘Tobaeeo, bales, .....2
Tobaceo, Ihds
Soap, DNS... 0...
Thums, Ibe... ee

me

Lard 0 S00
Mutter. ccc 2,722
Cheese.......... 0 1,017

Flour, bbls. 3,057

Beef... veeeeee DO
Pork .. cece ALT
Star, Wxs....... 8 70
Codtish, qs... EAU
Haddock oo... Mi
Dried fish, bxs.. Wd
Pickled fish, bbIs. 0.340
Rice, Ws... AO
Rice, bbls. ...... Tt |
Soap, bxs... oo. 2. 000
Shingles... 412,000
Drugs, pkys. eri |
Olive oil, eases... 2.50
Beang, bush... . 6.08

Lard, ths...... st

Flour, bhig. 2...) 8,708
Pork rere Bil
Coltish, qtla. oo... AKO
Viekled Ash, bbls. 2.11
Soap, bxs 2. 2,750

Dried fish... A
Rice, bhis,..... oe OTE
hard, Ibs. . 46,761

Butter. ........ dD,
5

Hama... re
Cheese. ccc... *
Candles, eases... 05
In.
Flour bbls... . . 420

Heel, plus 10

Pork, bbls. ..... j
Codtish, quis... 0... 14D
Piekled fish, bbts, res)
Soap, Wxs.. c.f LOD
Rive, bis... ... Pas Paras |

Cheese, Ibs... AM

. 180

Flour, bbls... .
+ BO

Pork oo...
Drugs, plyrs.. +
Sumy, enses.. Jf.....48
Kieo, Oba ow,
‘Tobaceo, bales:...... 10

Dareh
Flour, bbls... 4... 2,851
Hee ene As)
Codfish, quis. f.....d60
Pork, bis. oi... SAO
Lard, Ihe... EE 205
Putter, 0.0.22... 2,018
Cheese. oo... wee ATES
‘Tobacco, bata... Lat
Rice, bhla.,. mr hs

Suear, bxe.,..

Mareh 10 to
Flour, bila...
|
Pork o.......
Colilal, qtla.....
Viekled tsh, bbts.
Dried tah, xs. .
Rive, tes.
Inia, Wie...

Klour, bbls. RAUL
Pork... coe AD
Hard, Ihe... 8

oe ATS

Soap, bxa.
Camdles. oo BO

Tobueeo, bales... ....72
tulfish, qtls........244
Wseare, phyga... 20
Waetter ri rn ASS

Dress Peg” 1488

fan. 22 to Jan. 29,

ean, 20 to Feb, 5,

Kb. 5. to Feb. 12.

12 to Feb. 1.

12 to Mareh 19,

Mareh 28 to April 2.

Nails, keys...........00
Paint, pkys........ 200

Sugar, OxS...........20

Candles ........ 13
Domesties, ca M17
28

Pepper, Bags.......
Lumber, M....
Cordage, phy
Drugs, cases... .
Rive, tess... 6...
Rie, bbts.......
Furniture, cases

Shingles ......... 25,000
Nails, kegs.......... 58
Machinery s....08
‘Tin plates, bxs.. 0... .10

O08
283

Butter, dhs
Candles, bxs
Cheese, Ibs... 6...
‘Totaeco, hd
Tobaeco, bales.
Lumber, 0.......87,737
Domestics, eases... 220
Bread, pkyr |

Machinery, ease: On
Hams, ths ance!
Bricks... .. £0,000
Pepper, bay ee
Matches, eases...
Hardware... 6...

Furniture. 2.0.0.0...
Win. ccc cee

Suyag, cases...
Shoes oo...
Furniture. .
Drugs...
Hardware .
Lumber, Qo...
Timber... 00...
Tobaeeo, bates...
Domestics, cases... . 18
Iron, inant, pes... .. \7
Shingles, Now... 10,000
Brieks.... .......20,000

Lard,jiis. 0.02.0... 594
Butter... tO
Vin plates, cases. 10

Tobaceo, bales.......2

Wine, phys. ........ 001
Dried fish, bxg..... 500
Domestics, bales... .. 19
Jaunber, foo... 14,053

Soap, Uxs...
Pickled fish,

bbis.....

Codfish, qtls ....... 80
Urted fish, Use... oe. Bad
Damestiva, cases... .. a0

Soap, Dxs. oo... 2, E58
Ilana, Hie... E8
Dried Ash, bya... 1,050

Domestics, enses.. 0.0001
Nalls, kes... 60. M0
Furniture, plazas... 2.04
Neans, bhts.. 0.0.00. 100
Viekled fish... ....0..40

Linseed off, pala... . 407
Lumber, feo... E7000

Mareh 26.

Soap, bxa. ce... 400
Hrend, ea ...... JS
Butter, Ihs.. 37
Cheese... . HS
Candles, bx 0)
SHAM ee IR
faumber, Ao... ENO
Hhtnules... ee. 5,000

Supar, bhle......

Mee eae.

Domestivs, Dales... .. Ps
Shingles, ho Lanes 12,000
Lumber, ft....... 15,000

Dried (sh, bxa... 15,00
Pielded ish, bhla... 2%
Nails, heps.......... R00

Leather, mfd, cases. .
Lumber, feet. .
Matches, cases, .

Lard, Ibs ae
Linseed vil, gals.
Machinery, cases.
Mill. oc. eee ee
Nails, kegs.
Vlive oil, cuses
ats. cee
Pickled fish bb
Paint, kegs.y
Pork, barrels...... 4.032
Raisons, boxes. 2... 00
Rum, puncheons. .... 4

1 SIS

1M

Oil, gallons.........200

Rice, ba
fierces,

Rope, coils. Rye flour, |
Shooks, Shoes, cases
Soap, boxe

Sugar, ex bundles...

barre Shot, kegs... ......00. 2
boxes...

Timber, feet. .....17,000 Tobacco, bales... ..

Tin phates, boxes... .. ty hhds........ wees
OWSUS. eee 10) Tobacco, mtd, tbs 1

Tongues, by ll

Wiue, eas sees DOO

THE MINERAL WEALTH OF HAYTI

BY DROW. G. SMITH, OF PORT-AU-PRINCE,

VIEE--Ctoa L- (conenupen.)
Translated expressly for The Pine and Pah.

Report of the Board of. Diveetors of the compa:
ny for working Che mines of Hayti in isis,

The conunittee begs leave to state that shortly
after the appearance of the prospects rider whose
direction the company was formed, it found itself
obliged to abandon the part relative to agriculaire,
The existing liws in Uayti presented obstacles of
steel a nature thacit was deemed prudent not to
oppose them. Tn regard to other, parts of this
prospectus, concerning the mines of copper and
the melting of gold, the company has emploved
eminent and eapable persons toexanine the dider-
ent mines and rivers where polis found, and at
the same time to) procure official information ve.
sulting from observations and practical researches,
By so doing, the committee has discharged the da.
ties Imposed Upon it, and ava elt of our col-
tins, tomatke an exhibit of its (ansactions to the
stockholders.

The reports an the copper mines are very favor:
able, aecompanied by maps aud plans of the places
where they are situated; by which it appears that
the mines of Maymon were opened by the oll in.
habitants ina very superticinl manner, and that
the mining and smelting was carried onto a very
trifling extent, The work was envied on in the
same way in whieh quarties are worked, and pits
ave dug without machinery, availing themselves of
one shad to receive che eardi tvken from another.
The surrounding soilis covered with ore (thrown
aside ny too poor for smelting) but from whieh we
have obtained, by experiments made in’ England,
{Eto J per vent. ef copper,

The ove extracted by the agents of the company,
yielded ander the blowpipe 00 to 800 per cent. of
copper, whieh is obtained under severat fornia,
namely, red, blue and green matachi Tt would
Dave taken as century’s labor ofa tage namber of
tilners Co have exhausted this distriet, amd that, vo,
before the aid of machinery would have been neces-
Suny,

The products of these mines ean be transported
to the seaboant etther by land, or by water carriage,
exeepting a distnnee of fone infles, “The copper
mines af Saint Christopher an situated about 35
miles from tbe efty ot Saint Domingo, and consist
of a variety of blie and prven copper pyrites and
of the siphuret of ton, mixed wut separate,
They ave in beds or veing of fom seven to four.
teen feet in depth; extending a considerable dis-
tanee, and yielding under the blow-pipe from 30 to
fO percent of copper,

The seing ave in the position indicated by the
letter KK.

K K

The intervals being dled with copper pyrites and
the sulphinet of tron, and from surveys and actual
talentations futhe matter mide npon the spot, it
has been demonstrated that eortainly one hundred
workmen could not exhaust the oro above the level

80

caused them grief. Respectfally yours, .
WiLiiam THOMrsoy.

A Chance for Intending Emigrants.

DAavVIDSONVILLE, Anne Arandel Co., Md. }
December 9, 1861.

James Redpath—Dear Sir: Thave just scen in
the Tribune, in connection with a nonce of your
Society, the remark that an obstacle in the way of
Your operations, is sometimes the difficalty in the
disposal of property. Now [have it in mind to
remove from this (J pnrposed to move to the West,)
| and it has occurred to me as prs ible thet theve
we ae ane ~ -~4-_ S sf some of your
» teva at GASER Saath Bbw wer ly oe boa of selling
from twenty to forty acres of good land 2
small tenement; somewhere within the corn
ing limits; I should prefer about Latitade . -
The Government of Hayti pledges itself to ex-| shall not be able to give a high price, but hope te-
tend all the protection and assistance in its power, : be ableto pay cash for what T porchase. 1 enclose
to facilitate the object for whose accomplishment ! a stamp for your reply, should you know of any
the contract has been made, | such small tract forsate. [trust yor wel excase

It may be well to observe that the commnnica-! my troubling you. Very respectfally,
tion with Hayti is regular, by means of His Majes- Heyrr W. THorrs.
ty’s mail-boats—leaving Falmouth twice every
month,

The committee hope, from the reports which it!

derstanding, that at least six persons shall repre-
sent the interests of the undersigned. If it be left
to them to fumish the names, they will undertake
to, those of gentlemen well known for their integri-
ty, honor, and yrood faith. But they repeat that
they prefer that the nomination and appointment
of the director emanate from the stockholders.

Tue HArtiran Movewest rx Berwepa.—We
. . | . find the following letter i d iv
has received, that a considerable shipment. of cop- | | & fetter in the Bermn a Royal
per may be made in a short time, after the compa: | Gazerte, of Dec. 3, The Anti-Haytian party, both
ny shall have commenced operations, In conclu. , onthe Continent and Islands, are being rapidly
sion, the committee and Mr. Hendriks inform the | convinced of their errors, or discomfited :
sha ers that specimens of ore and of gold =>.
wns wand detailed reports meay be found at its count: | . To the Editor of the Bermuda Royal Gazette —
eh . lial? Pa iSirs  Artiving afew days since from Havti, via
1 New York, and hearing, to my great astonishment,

Ing-house—No, 2, Copt Hall Chambers—until the |
fairs of the company are definitely arranged; and . wes
alfairs of the company are detinitels rhe i of some unfavorable report as to the condition of

thacallother necessary information will be fur: eat . :
. : : wat : : i the Bermuda Immigration Company in that coun-
she ase W av desive its the ention of | Abba * : “3 :

nishel to those who may desire it; the intentic 1 feel it my duty, being one of the leading

\ Ot try
Ycompany being act honorably and above | Us? . A . "
the com any being to act honorably and above | party, to relieve the minds of the pudlic on that

The committee thank the stockholders forthe con. ; PONG and, a wi Lan Wen T must beg @ small
fidence which they have bestowed on it, and) pre; i In yout Wis ck girewlarad jonraal. Havt:
sent to them this report AW exposition of if pro- + | nei re muse nd Sia - eeihecal et &
ceedings inthe hope that it will convince them (8 me witwd ANG ObseTvng The Ty ean ay
that the action of the committee merits their ap. ; MeNtadens tah he Government to Strangers a ney
probation. I “ as lod to Ta ¢ advantage ot the Invitation, ae

At the same time, it desires to acknowledge its - accordingly made one be the party who a Bet
indebteduess to Mr. Hendriks, throughout the or Pe m - he a We es ee aitere Grice,
whole of ils proceedings; having confided the en: We ont ae Sana . ne Gave. Shortt aver ony ane
tire management to his care and dinvetion, It like vival ee Me Wk Perinehier one oF the ‘Tea.
wise hopes that this publie aeknowledgment will) Oo" y ee Ne ve -
he naken as a proof of its desiwy to manifest the | fT of the company, waited in Une cinector of the
high opinion it has conceived of his conduct and ! eee nttont ) the Mlinicwr * Stare whew
ability, above all, for having: accomplished every- an aa mw to th aw aa et cated as with
thing to the interest of the parties coneemmad in | CYS ek ot OUT “ 1 And Ereare Lani u
un ener “Say mark of repent and then rages 4 fee

sy ge ’ - . ae Se ' i t rs AY, R- sigs

No, 2 Copt Hall Chambers, October 8, 1838, _ | Waital on him and made known the objects of the

[Nore.--The preceding pages were already in , Colony, to which, Lani pleased to state, he expressad
press, and the printing far advaneed, when Mr, | his warmest jhprebation, and revommeniel us ®

ha Coyote eh addin specimens af i St. Mark, it being the healthiest part of che Tsiand,
hdlia favored me with additional specimens of gold, Fat whieh place we were reompty conveved in a
silver, copper and iron, steamer belonging to the Goverment, Where we

This note will not, perhaps, be considered sue: were heartily welcomed by the inhabitants, and re
perfluous, its purpose being to point out aconece the | tn cha every attention, particularly trom the Agent
wlative value and the ditferent localities of these} Aner waiting a few weeks for the government's
Assent to a pertion presented by us, and receiving
a favorable answer fo our request, the company
commenadl work with good coumige, and a pravere
ful hope of a prosperons tae, .

Fouling perfectly satistiad with the state of things,
and finding that the government had fly ova
pliet with theiy promise, E decided to return to Ber-
muda, for the satisftetion of my frends, and to
make such armangements as to enable me to refoin
the company ina few months, and settle fora time
ina connny producing abundant stat, suitat tw
every market in che eomnmienvial workd

Yours, &e,, EV. Carsey.
Warwick, Dee. 2, 1831.

YP. 8.—f am prepared to receive the names of and
to ret for, the convevanee of any enterprising com-
pany that may wish to emigrate in the ensuing
Spring. EL Ree.

mines,

The silver ove whieh T have ino my possession,
was analyzed by Mr. Gustave Netto, sent with Mr.
Lark, by the London Company, in) 18%6, to exam
ine the mines of Hayti. The mine is sitiatal near
Port-au-Platte, near the viver Yesicea, The metat is
inerusted with a calearvons substance, of a semis
erystalline, secondary formation, united to. silica’
Father Valverde speaks of it in his history; this
nine is particularly rich, amd was visited in 18438

The specimen of iron comes from Maymen, near
the banks of the Yuna, about a league from the
large copper mine lying in the same district. 1t
was opened by the Spaniants, and ently abandoned
in GAO; it viekds in fusing 8) per cent.

The copper ore is trom the township of Comy ;
itis a sulphate and sub-acetate, in whieh particles Ape! Yo shimbering fivemen of Tenn:

miler . : 4) , ain in] vivian Uasti, with open arms and pleading wie, en-
of sitver are found mingled. The MOUNT AN ate ns to enjoy her generous, hespitality. partake of her
which these minerals are found is a continuation of | National prosperity, and assist in developing the vast serie
: : : te ie itite pisins, Truitt
. Nie - tion, ¢ eultnal and mineral wealth of her fertile pisin tea
Marmont, whic bh extends inte that set n and | Hills and tagrant vates. Shatl we heartily wspond?  Shail
whose formation appears to be wholly of that nasi we grcionay acypt the fraternal invitation of her ewat,
ture ‘past aud wise Gethin? Shall we sithin her bonters and

" eo gs . . a {MONS her Pe realize Che A onjoyment of that moral

Ry analysis, it is found that this mineral will | cuteune, wial equalicy and political triton, which che com.
rie » per cent. of puw metal, and a stil lanzer | plesenal poytuties of our mative State has ever denial us?
yield 42 per vent | fpu 7 mM ta . 4 . | Shall. we be guidbal by the tight of innumersbe examples, of
per centage of silver, This mine was formerly the Bossinur and benefits of emigration, presentat by the
worked, b slong been abandoned. | ability and powrr, intettiqnnes and) progres, wealth snd fn-
worked, we hn W me cen aban + | tenes of this croat Nation of adventurers Are we Aimert-

Phe specimen of copper was obtained AWM! aang? Dawe press the will, emumey, energy, sind enter.
Saint Clutstopher's nine, near the lide river Ma. | ptise that charseterires the American poople | Ves, we oy

. . v
Ivis an eanmple that copper is find in
with the earhonate or oxide of inne

Sard we meqiine nothing beside removal beyond the sphere
this inhalant piyjidiew | but time, place, and epportant-
connection ty tedewlop and maintain our itentiq with the spite snd
:  piwgivcs of the age. Erfendts, be up snd ateiag 2 the seers
and ahownds.in the same place, Sawowithin sour revels the dime ie mere, the place Haety,
Among this last collection, is a fgment of nas) and the epperamnity your eotiewtion with the ting for
ss . . , say itunes ot the Geena Cate) Grocers. Pevenns of intelli-
tive fron, coming Mum the neighborhood of Cape : pence and respectability, moral, temperate and industrions
Vay tian, where the mine fs situated, two learnes

signal,

i habits, ongagnt in varios departinents of Tabor, art or
. . 1 svteties, are atrhestly pAquestal ty connert trenrseltes with
distant from the sea. ina plain, and near to a town | ings COMM. The Givwers wi emigeate about the Tet
From the abundance af weod, and other tecessary | of Aqid, thus adonting sbundant time Br nesitl Teenarn:
. ~ ~ . f i aw 1 o Us wy mt s
unaterials, the position IS most frwnbe fe dhe Hensel nile ty the lagen Gowns eran
establishment ofa dandey. This mine is very > prineipalty fr dhe profierbhs enlanny of coir, iudign, and
vies the one will viehl Sto 90 percent. by Mision, | spice. Sixteen arent Vann wil ty grarantonl fo owe re
. * < . vere . Ths ia, fie af oi, aed G ain eww ie AN, ~
free tron all fooaan ma i" anus aevidentally i sons Neaiing ty comment themeclws with the Grvwers, wall
discovered by my fijond, My. Julia, in his fourney | please addivss, ctating ag, cecapation nmnber_ and ages
to che capital, Mm 18th This stated (hat then ie 8) ie panty, Seo. Ge. JOS O. RUSTILL Ran Se PLO,
coal vine at Samana, and Ehave fist seen a pivee, | Hayrieting, Ds,
whieh Lan assured came Qum that bay, which is
stunted about chive or four teagues Mow che sea.)
coast, The coat is Hauite, and resembles: closely, |
tine whtel Thave nbeady discovend,

WAR YPINW ANY DATA ~
PUBLISHED RVERY THERSPAT, AT D1 WASHINGTON STRERT,
They say that this fossil is also found fy the ar} ROSTUN, BY JAMES REDPATH, PROPRIETOR,
ronlisement of Caves near ty Camp Porin, Wow.) pgm nenne: one Tiller per anim, hevardabty On ad

Pepper, phys........ 78

of tho river, hi many years, the bed extending

ever, L have not as yet seen any coming Hom chat) canes: cunts ablitional to Canadian mibecribers, to cover
plaee.] international postage.

The Pine and Palm.

Hoston:
THURSDAY, FANUARY 2. T8862.

Mr. Watkins's leeture in’ the Zorento
Glade,
SEMIGHATION TOY Tr”

* Riehmond-Street, Wesleyan Chareh
in “Porento was crowded on
Tuesday evening to ifs atinost capacity,
to Haten te a lecture trom Mr Wind,
Watking on the subject of Taytian
emivration, Many persons eould get no
further than the door, | Mr. Watkins is
the travelling agent ef the Haydan Bu-
rean, for northern Ohie, Michigan, and
the Canadas, and has been aetively en-
gaged for ten weeks in the work as-
Signed him. His lecture on Tuesday
evening was an able and Tucid: exposi-
dion of the emigration movement. The
various ebjections urged against it hy
its opponents, particularly in Canada,
Were fairly and ably reviewed. Ife he-
evel that black men should do as
white men do. If their condition is an
undesirable one, attempt to change it by
coing cisewhere. He thought” those
colured persons who have emigrated to
Canada. in order to better their condi-
tion, should not object to any of their
number going elsewhere for the sane
purpose. The colored man would! never
he in every respect the equal of the
white man in Canada. Ife is too weak,
numerically speaking, The white man
must always be lis ruler, and the col-

ae aa - ered man must occupy a secondary posi-
EEE NE ee heten, leaving tian. He will never be equally respected
vio trends behind them with the white man, for power is the
2 EAeN were get foundation of respect. fe must, there-
nem. Here gyre, emigrate to some part of the
ve stations that To world where he can be seen, and heard,
omeial capacity. Land felt by other nations. Hfe must

ROUGH NOTES FOR AGENTS.

The Work goes bravely on.

(eolored)

SPENCER.
Mr. Sreneer writes, Now, 2250 Many
us subject (c migra-
The wreatest trouble
real estate in this
ysabstantial men that |
IT have seen veu, are do-
best to sell ont and ge to
tust returned here from
IT was at Ann Are
Creek. Marshall
i of these places
snd all are anxious

MR.

are

Wl.
BX ON t

MR, CAREY.

Tsaac N. Carey writes

Ce ind

(Nov. 27). of
sotton-growers:: “OAT or
Pthein intending to en-
ration of eatton in the
amd th are many
have had much expe-

noseme of the south-

aaa

arrving With them a
ming implements,
PoP tous, AT took

tha:in Station. in

in mv

fate Dwith much elvihty a hat ; ; ;
ae in Wi } ns vn have a nationality of his own, Te must
in mh an! govern himself, Mr. Watkins alluded
emigrants have re. po: . . .
VorAnTs WAVE Te- in forcible terms to the various theories

miton. and have: been propounded be modern ethnolowists of
Jransportation Of the inherent inferiority. of the black
Phisucknowlede pine Tt is a duty, he said, devolving
the 2 ANON non the black race, to demonstrate the
> and liberality. tisity of these theories, Let us show
He Oa this that servitude is not our normal condi-

the

t apt . . .
? a tion. If we are men, Jet us act like
Wis is Ce .
Ne j NG Ber sen, Dwarfs and monkeys excite
nae 4 iteoeters. as ae ;
AN. NO Mioste * Jevite but men, fully developed men,

. : One of our
ooenteon Chatham, P carn,

ip and te soliciting

WOOT OT. mount the rostrum of the world’s activi-
tea, and, like the eagle, build their eyrice
on the mountain top, where their uspira-
hons love to linger, The advantages of
emigration to Hayti were foreibly por-
traved. The character of the men who
should emigrate was also alluded to,
Mr. Watkins's leetare was interspersed
with many very apposite illustrations
i Bee a oo and @fneedotes, which made it expecially
ys ned inftucnne, Th des net vane interesting, and he was enthusiastically |
‘ 8 appianded during ita delivery. A vote
ROW Cf Lanke wee temdarnd We Watton Mie!

Charles

. } , Py a}
wee B&B COloped centlern

in of
eonayderable pecking
the field on a lectur-
: i fis object 14 ta
pany 8 49 ty Navn ty raise

; f tome

COO an,

ite Deteonany > out Dam vlad to

We print the following account: of

Tochink will be most likely Co prevent November 16; Newburgh, Baptist | left Pennsylvania
church, November 17, secord meeting,

Cis valuable aceession to TLayti, | Mirst,,
a premature change by that government
aft the place for settlement, or in,
other words, should the government now ! te
conclude to cut off immivration to St.
Marks and dircet if to some other place
on the Island, Poam confident that) such
aocourse would) prove very prejudicial,
to the movement. Lam sure that there |
are hundreds who will be ineapahle of |
appreciating the policy that would in-
duce to such a course. Phe general
impression is that St. Marks is one of
the healthiest plac@ on the Ishind, and
until that is sufliciently peopled, there
will be a general and strong objection |
to soing to any other place, until they |
are convinced of its equal advantages. | an
The next thing to which T refer, is the |
reports of intelligent and reliable men
who have already gone there. Should
there be teo great a delay in getting
emigrants situated, after their arrival,
that may tend to subject to such incon-
veniences as will discourage them and
render them dissatisfied. [do not refer
to natural or constitutional complainers
or criunblers, or those who go there feel- ,
ing that the government is indebted to!
them simply fur coming, or going there!
with folded arms and arrogant airs, ex-!
pecting to be toted around the country |
by the natives, This class, of course, |
Will be disappointed, and will complain!
that they are not treated as equals by
their superiors, But there are, and will]
be, others who will net complain without |
just canse,
nothing in the management of affhirs to
force them to this very undesirable ne-
cessity. [have the fullest confidence in
the desire of the government to avoid

S:
N

ca

UC.

th

T hope that there will bets

: po

iW

Tuesday, November 19, in he Dresby-

Wednesday, November 20; Princeton,
Fhursday, November 2h; Jew Bruns- |
wick, Friday, November 22 Mt. Ifolly,

places, the meetings were wd attended, |
and the people seemed intersted in the !

information respecting Taytis very lim. | ; : ] 1
ited. At Patterson, at the caclusion of }¢4 with. She 1s an intelligent and _reli-
the second meeting, a club us formed, | able person, [1m inforined by the Rey.

them.

LETTERS FROM EMIGRANTS I HAYTI.

present opportunity to write un few tly

very well satistied with thislace, I
‘have had good health since [ft home.

in May last, he now
“returns for his family. He professes to
be highly pleased.

Our club has had an addition of three
rian church; Patterson, N. J., on’ men since we left. We have purchased
‘plows, harness, hose, ete,, ete.

Marewell, ete., ete.
Grorce Cary.
An Explanatory Note. °
| Winpsor, C. W., Dee. 17,61.
Jas,. Redpath—Dear Sir: With this
send j“ou an original letter, of recent

ba large attendances; Nevark, Nv,

tturday, November 23; Surtington,
ovember 24. At all ofthe above |

use of emigration. As ie colored j

people of New Jersey are mstly uned- | date, toge ther with literal copies of two

ated, their opportunity fo obtaining | others rece.ived last week.
Mrs, Jones» Lam personally acquaint.

5 i

ds twenty-six names wer at once} Wm. Webb, (w. ho so kindly favored me

given in. ‘Those who joine the club i with a copy of Mr . Wheeler’s letter) that
were amongst the, most indurious and ; he is well acquainy ed with Mr. Wheeler,
influential persons of Patterss, the Rey. | and believes him to be a man of veracity
Mr. Seudder, the presiding ‘inister of 8% reliability. Mr. Abraham Wilson

e Zion Methodist church, bag one of : 58Y8 the same of Mr 3. Mary A. Tanner.
Respectfully, ; Several other letters, some not so favor-

W. Weris nowy, | able, I learn. I shai. ! endeavor to get
Boston, Dee. 9, 1861. | copies of all, and forw ard them for pub-
lication, so that both : sides may be read.
| Very truly you TS,
Isaac 7 \. Cary,

Rest. Agent.

Their Opinions about the Catry,

ALL SIDES SPEAK OU’

Note from © Mary A. Tanner.
Str. Ma 2k, Nov. 19th, 1861.
My Dear Dar wghter—Care of Abra-
than Wilson—1 Vindsor, Co W—T sit
down to inform you that I arrived here
the safe, and a deligh, ‘fal voyage, only a lit-
: sea-sickness, It is a delightful
scomntry; all) king 's of rich fruit; we
am Care yet boarding in * the city; we get
: live dollars 2 day for single people, and
‘thirty dollars a week for married peo-
ple. We have heard a great deal about

NO. WL.

Note from Isaac Leste:
Sr. Marc, Nov. 1s1861,
Mr. Redpath —Dear Sir: take

es to inform you that I rehed the
rt of_ St. Mare, the 23d of «I

e have not got our land ycbut will

and prevent anv thing being done that ~ os :
will yeeecion reasonable rounds of com. get it in a few days. We aall well.’ Hayti, but it cannot Le deseribed. [
> [have written to my familyjat have would like to know how y ‘ou are getting
. > s

plaint. Tt was my intention, you are
aware, to sal with the emigrants on the
27th of November, but in consequence
of being detained so date in’ preparing

not yet received any news fa them.
[wish you would do me thévor to min
send a copy of the Prae anlabn to

along at home. T leave jt to your own
l, come or stay; if you come, bring

al your Ameriean money in. told or sil-

. ones Ween tree . .
iny Pennsylvania colonies, | was unable: lee vila lease direct to isannith ver. Give my best respects to Mr. ‘Tan.
to wet myself ready to embark at that! besten ilberturee Universit Xenia, ner, T would be elad to see vey. * in this
time, Flowever, Poin happy to know § 14 so by subseribine mf your countty, Bring everything yeu have
that another opportunity is afforded me Close by subsertoing nyt yout got. Don't forget to bring two or three

for a passage on the PSth inst. b hope
that my visit will not only be of erent |
advantage and interest to me personally,

_/ most ffectionate frien

Lull dea.
Isaac Bren.

Noto from Lloyd Brit

bat
The aver *
and could not: survey our

umbrellas, ‘There are plenty here
iit takes money to buy them. |
thas been sick,

Give my love to Mr. Cary and Ju '
jand to Mrs. Trey and amily: Mr. Hare Produce.
-vey and family: Mrs. Gales and hus-
. band.

1

but I presume she does not treat all her . President Geffrard, and in which cur
hourders aa she treated us, for she said immigrants are stopping —tke Exo
the reason she treated us 56 ill, was he- Nationale dee Mademoiselle — hich we
cause we were emigrants; and [believe would call © a female seminary,” — the
her, I hope they will never put any rains of an old slave-pen, and the neat-
more there, to be punished as we were. est, though shadeless, of all neat ceme-
We staid there eight days. We went teries, are the princi I things of interest,
on board ship on Saturday, and get sail in a city which aed to be called « The
on Monday afternoon. I was sick from second Paris.”

the time we started until a day after we .
were in sight of the Island, and wasso | S°PPORT OF THE EMiGRasts.
weak, they had to almost carry me on No sooner had theimmigrants come on
deck, The captain was a perfect gentle. Shore, than they began to receive the *
inan, and the steward was just a3 kind ™oney which the government hed ap-
as he could be. There was nothingthat PTopriated for the promised eight-day
could be done, but what was done to support. About forty cents per day ard
mike us comfortable. We got here in lodging tree, is allowed to each adi,
cleven days from New York; and were 28d about twenty-four cents te minors,
becalmed three days in sight of the Which is amply sufficient to purchase
Island. ‘They say it was the quickest D€cess*ry provisions. Bat what sur-
passage that has ever been made to Prise us most was io see immigrants
the Island. Isaw no naked men the “ho bad been here for months, still re-
day I arrived, —not a bit more naked C¢i¥ing 4 weekly support from the gov-
than I have seen the stevedores in Phil. €™ment at the rate of one-half the
adelphia, and other places. The men *mount silowed them the rst eight
that carried ns ashore out of the lighters, 448%S This comes as fuilows : —

had both pants and shirts on. The Aftibonite River having broken its tanks
natives are just as kind as they can be, 1 the earlier part of last sammer, prc-
I happened to get in with some of the YeoUng thereby the cutting ofthe cana,
upper class, when I fjrst come, and they OY Which the government expecied ¥
have petted me till Lam almost like a Ve employment to such immigrants as
spoiled child. No one need think to Were unable to commence immediaeiy
come here and astonish the natives with ‘he cultivation of their lands — the sid

their dress; it will be a mistake. for 2Mount Was allowed them per week, for

: : . : “hieh no Tremenemrzric ce Metin? ft
they wear the richest kind of dress, silks "Cs ho Temuneravien is regained. ive
and everything else; merinoes. Ins. WOW have been very easy. however,
tres, calico, lawns, delaines. and tex- fT Ue government to have avoided ¢

tures Loo numerous for me to mention, UA expense, for there are not Waning
[ would write more, but the vessel sails Mdividus-swho Wound be gind io tarnish

reniine
twee os
bd x aZee4

uit the eneps they mighs

the emisrants

ewiving th

ina few minutes and I must ec We Work, OF

ali.

A RIDE THE
The Hon. M. Eke.
from Port an Princes,

iT

TH! ARTIBONITE.

Good night. Remember me.
Saran A. E. Joxes,
Letter From J. D. Harris
(From J.D. Harris, once agent of emi-
eration for Ohio, and author of a Sum-
mer in the Caribbean Sea — who went
to Hayti in * The Flight.” —wehave re. parted the rn
eeived the following etter, headed. wheels even for those
~Cope'’s Narradive,—Part IL” We have thadal ~ he
not vet received the first: part. Mr. by a neversta
“arris will excuse us for striking out it as delicious

¢ Tans oy
tO IN

dwe st
survey of the Innd unen wi
QTants are in The

seven miles from S21. M

Sita.

Toad

Int also to these that are there, and to [From the Monitour,] ‘land ; but we will get our Tand now, | : Ons rien
intending imaigrants here, Te will be! Amtnteax, Pennec. 18 /Give my respeets to Michael O'Conner die 7" de plane that he assumed: for NA Tend
iny pleasure to do all [ean for the fur.) We are permitted to pcblishe fol- and tel him that everything he said was ther) 8? epponents of Haytian emigra- sone Haytians were a s
Pe ve tps ete , . so. Y a Lee eas | ; : s comake WW mearer hven Mghe
theranee of this providential moveme nt lowing extract from ale or tten to’ Bui You must kiss my lite children, tion vould not hesitate to assert: wanton h ses ond Were peel weve
believing, as Edo, in its speedy and per-! William Thompson, by ove emi. | Bring all your thin clothes. You must buy “tition if a known th stony rows Lpovom ee
manent rood to the race, jarrants that left Danvil. art time ya cooking steve in Now York, The only chav ti Was yp. . ous % OWT the stony groaned, mosombst : t
Yours truly, teo.—Ep. thing is, We cannot understand the lane cane dsoveal names were nor oh xed to as meen as sa many crews W WG . .
‘ ‘ . ‘ R yee, . ‘ sow . so ATU bis Tas HEU The mead
J. 03. Seerrit Str. Mark, Nov. 16 [86 iguage, Give my love to the brothers of 8 & nets Narparive » letter is in- ATU hase at 3 Ms THOR aa Te Ted
; ) 5 . . A ¢ brothers of ope’s Narrauve, he letter af ene : >
' ~ forks and at Uy tark a ena ig ERIC

Ag. for the State of Pennsylvania,

tak

Dear Sir: Itis withy ag that [ {the ehureh,

We arein the ruins of

© this onparte t+ rito you, | hinge city. Send George on the fine
t

s steewy & . a
’ Bring a mosquito bar. T have

. tie fete ee Lee tee ” “s to, | bont
* eters oe . arene . bausdeein te é . .
. one ne tote taking the field i 2 . IHPORT OF, W “hhES Brows cpcro’ that yor may kuow ws Wont! P
no Wien ae be taxing the held 10 fis inatructive and able addresy, He | BEPOIP OF. Wa wl ms THOT mre ont Nopvinee you tl pnot been a great deal in’ the country.
‘ that, $60, On UCI. sdiyegued the intending emigrants last FRIDAY, OCT , , l 12 I Cre 1 There are a great many hogs, but net
et Pa . . a in . Jernes Pevdpath Pes Sire 1 hee We started from New less , ae Sy 1
D night at their elub-room, and delivers:  Aianes  feespetth, fag. ~~ SU's ey » “Tee aoe very (at Give my fove to sister anc
diy, the 2tst of last mon yt Chir | o's “and brother Creer
: Une fy 1 Ty

‘Pree, 15, Mr. Carey

lest wool :
a a ‘ a sundry mond-Street Wesleyan Charch, 4
et favorable character

another address to-night at the Rieh-:

tohalf

to subinit to you the following: report
of my dabers:
On Sunday, Sept, 20, 2 visited: the

siiling for seven days, st
waves at the rate of nine know hou

brother) Ewhbanks,
Moore, and Heury UL Sith.
Bring all: your

t
ver the! .
: (and sister

and Mdmune Smith.

Vi ter cesting, and all our readers who take
ury interest in the movement, or mn the‘ Dessallines hety mide

in memory of the great slaughter which
vt the whites”

From this plat we had a Qe view

-iTaydan people, will not fhil te read itt . : an .
all.] of the valley of the Ardbooie. and
5 - chad Fi a4 4 Se RS uw ware

NARRATIVE OF J.D. HARRIS. Tae More MARTEL Ss oe :

ayw oor Ttyes IN axpD akotnn sr. Hay) does net concen, em the
Se eee et American setdoment begins, We od
AAR ‘served a man thatching his house and

att . . Yay a Ss .y . .
Were voto round the Bay of St riding up to him enquire.

poet seven aclock.”

“Under date December 2, Mr Wate:
beinas Chatham. J ehadl
proeced to Duxton and Dresden from
this pomt, ax the friends are very any.
jones to have aie address them on Pay.
Hanmatters. This isan important field,

ivrinte, 1
them for
ray tata on the Pine and Pati,
no Danuvnter whe were oo offen
wre:

receyyed fram es

Mey POY ORE] Oe

oe . .
a writes froin

PIU EG Ge Sd Oe SEG OOM es, wot

wily yhiek Noha ory yre aly Pmypwad tn

health — highty phere dr ith the ontey. sed ane vat should nat be relingniched
a were aa Other aE Sak coripan yy, £0 upon any consideration, The imoye.-
foe ey phigh de lee . , J !

‘ j yb Me PG Cea, ment ryiest ag 0 before it, in thas ree

eee thee cee le tee ayes . . : .
BROT Te FOedTeeT, HINO ay al] opposing influences, Po wall net
yooomt of cay way fo attaek any ones

the movenvent

frac Onio,  laree ane

serv bherce he has

vee hutne one moet attack

thin Wedmesda v)

EOE, ares a enomy heat? and think be esenpe with |
pos ud a, Oban, ie. veenie tpuhy itapunity. When Dovet throneh with
" fry ye eine From mis 080 paeton ane Dresden, Esha vieil OTe
nie ne She nay bragedled on LOO! three or four eettlerments: in Canaela, ¢

worn hendred nites, This iecertainly, avihin twenty miles of Windsor ane
oo Se, .

We were all sessick, but ce soon
: ys .
ever it. Phe old people empl their
lime ino singing and prayerad the
young ia sinving © Out on Covean,
stiling.” ‘Phere was one death board,
two marriages, and one birth. oe kind-

 Refuree Tfonse? eight niles from
Windsor, in Canada, where bE found a
Jaree schoolhouse, filled with) persons,
every one of whom were Farmers, anx-
ions to hear semethine abet Psawd.
At the conclusion of aay lecture many " : . :

; . . capned gi] | Reso! the eaplvin nado his er is he-
quesHons were asked, and Dowarned all; . ' '

. . ; Fyond deseriplion, | We had nity to
whe were not intending to ealtivate thes Cheat tat Leelee, |
. . " ’ wa TORK OTH TOES eCahlee
soil, ar togamke themselves useful te the w ‘ i “ I Mm | il ‘ | ‘y

ec eheese, bres seb all sueloones as!
commbry ane te Themieelves, fo renin i i HEERE, rene, " ten ae

Ii feet, thin haw heen my aed | CoMkd be evpeeled on board vessel, |!
nh every

Canada.

. . 1
. . . . Weoarvived at St. Mack ono ouinth’
view fo trbending couperants \ " ‘ ‘ '

day, and had fo die in: port ou Mone!

Hace where DP have spoken. ;
]
day, when we went on shere TP were

Polvo dare audience at the Pap.
Hist chareh at Mimbersthure, on Monday,
September 80, who appeared avaeh in
ferceted in the past history and the pres
cnt condition of the Republic of Haye.

Py eorpest invitation of aeserat high
ly infliential Comers co Coleheater, |
went there on Tuesday, Qefober t, rnel

eveniies and mornings are plene,

: per a
women likewise, — |
for my Tamily.
here, TD ohave seen more meonainee |

receive telotlars

ench single nian receives: fivlollars yeu en ah ,
ay, (Iinydian eurreney) arsingle Call yeu things with yer Chat ve
. ; ‘ (a tise,
Everything plenty bed-elothes,

-elothes, and all veur bed clothes. Twould
j hi
pean, and take his land.
nbout Che same as tt is at hone,

ike Mr. Tanner to come as seen as he
The weather is
The
livhts are very cool T sleep ander a
hick quilt, We saw agreat many things
nthe sea oasharky besides fish as Ing
isc horse,

No more at present,
Meetionate mother,
Many

T remain yveur

AL Trnsen,
* Write as seonias ver get Chis, and
ohme know haw you get along. Pack

. :
kindly reeeived hy the natin Phe | your things in tiwe larye bexes, Put
weather ig very warm in omidy, the iyeur children's clothes un earpet bars,
, , Tad keep them always with von se (hat

Iwavs have them bands, Bring
uw have
yeur

and be sure yer have nails
vitotveur boxes chat will held them,

Pack your dishes well tn

Mark to-dav. vou would seo iC ts adeep
inlet of about owe miles in width. ex-
tending a leagte inland, and dotted with
vessels Lying close to the shore, treight-
ing with cotton and dye-stutts, The?
high, round form of Cape St. Mark, by.

whieh iC is bounded on the nowth. ponts ore would have cleansd in Canady

like a finger-board over the sea, guiding
the mariner inte the port, A amle back
from the sea is the mound whieh forms 1
the eape, and by a gradual ascent, the
eve sean reaches Che lofty peaks ot the
Morne duo Diable, thirty aules rao the
interior, and. five Chousand thet above
the level of the sea. The bay has pre-

as many nents,

°
Seneh doctor does necunderstand Win,

“What vessel did wou come on. Mon

sieur F

©The Traxilia sin”
“Tow Jong have vou had wour isn
© About six weeks”
Around him is cleaned a stuice As inrye

Sey
wy

tw"
re

The next one we
ome to is sick, He complains that the

and we have the sansietion ef aio:
ine him thar che said doctor hss been

removed by the government and au
Eugish physician sppomtal, Bar ot
all sad. tailaves. or ois. Che mawt duke

visely the hue of the sky. and the loth Tent te) explain, hat of the Bassied
mountains and Che deep, erech 4 alleys Lawes Colony is the saddest. Spare
ave alike enveloped in a drapery Obes. gaan giving you a mitate description

ain,

of what their management §

areas tay

At the head of this bay sleeps the Only think of the aytians at work on

vity oor, perhaps. | should say , slope

: . , the wad. and the
the vity for the newly-led and 1 vaoneeburgets will suger by

aretenstans of the
che cou:

ay gts a) . .
pone ng fon a volunteer, Joetrait and see what enn de done for
i WAR IeR. the December expedition, fo de net
. on . he we ine wolf ‘parade
Pieler date ‘Toronts, Mev, 19, Mr Prope fo confine mye Iota Canada,
enue Bites boat shall attend te Ohie and Miehiean
COA Lits Fitites
° . . : ‘ nher
J fiscl Hh op pesition in Conada te ete

Mirnsration
TTS eS

Fire Tieee abe hetieve in ba hope
J

Movernent,

Mr. Carey havige gone te Oberlin,

Y ’
Poreconamed an Winelow to nee after the
conigrantes left. the  Jattes

whi place, '

‘ npoke in the “Town Wall toon full house.

Thin: the meat beautifial of all dhe avr
colbinal Cowes Chronpeh whieh) TP passed;
minh althengeh the people ceem to te an
food cieenmataneces, many ef thea are

fyon nuke ap yerr mind to come, let

come than Pseen in the Statin six ‘ i
me knew ripht away, and if nog let ae

month, We bave very nieqouses, ; "
Plenty of wheat flour at twolvollars. know right away,

tharrely pork ia the came. te ward, | Note from Wim. Wheeler.

newly-slated mots of many ef the houses parison, A Your. lew shanty bale of
the stene walls of whieh were built WAY st cies and nd whivt has oust the sew
years ag, give (Che city AWAIT OFM ment mane than thrive its worth, sup-
proventent, Bat the many ald vuins rounded by bushes which have sprungy

Vhere were Units one emigrants whe
took the eae: here, anda hapypars nel of
poople Lonever witnessed, I hey ppocal
the afternoon in singing,

Ot EOE TOT pine vo whether yom our
nok! Phey he

th dete ‘J hie

toch out father ta the Phenght. Their

eran OF Hape and of Marvelonsiess

atiinich anythin or

nl ie Spel hire rami ,

OU eee beetersel Free tee deed ob Mgt,
UR oe

Lee tte ar POY farce Phe londol the Pine and Pata t'

Fie Mecawd vhows compris a herd Mang were the attempts nite hy
Telieanberested: friends” te tuaebuee Chena

teehee they Wepe horn. snes

ofovnornt and cdfieh opreachers, whe

erent ty fe the people Srlomt ogee be bey peanesin

Hage, stand nib aad eee the cabo ye af wel and dinwer: af water.’
Ob Coal aba, bern inte pee ted rend Vout oth eflorte ta this dpreetion were
Cth rag mere and ergot re, noel aheertive, They wenk  Oobowel’ the

roy fe, and mp sen Sohn! hep oe ya, heeding for President Goeltiared ane
Hagti, May ther eepertutiona be fully

reabizedg f"

atrad of ther comm cob, and then erie

of tay)

eben ere eon hind elass thon

hese adaee an rlalion to the Pbeytion od ORME pepo,
Sornereat inn Sbevernent wie ich wedye Same bedpath, General Nygent
ced) neh whee were ystiored in the ifr Jheur ir: h) Y Jsvcl Beotenas sanedusalecel the!

pomtincat of agente Whatever imag
neoosard of the fireth twee the
Pla ah reg temen competing the
Yes ehaee bey thea wlolesale Inder pre
sep tebirene ted Rapes fide jehae seh oped

Sllewiny plore Paaville, Wallebaree,
Merit nena, (\y sverley, Willinmepert, Phat
wHedphin, Ueribeng, Cielito, Peavie
town, Tedlefoute, Pantingder, Alone,
wal Pat bedeenege,
that Pov soll reecny

a

Poin depp to etite
ed

NS Vea roe tae coment sof

Pier wee tbe abies rapeperase The places, seed ie nemne of Chote enjoyed Che
pete tO ttet tet trek senbensdopeebapeee ot Hat pdenetre of seldlrescinge bergee sine cathe
th hee biben hot uf the porphe Jett etn reetpage: Phe atiiet mtboation why

7d a Jobin oc ed Ue deeys toebeneseh pense fesstoed dee

pepe cheaeee tteek bey lene eabtebs thee bersecene dea ty feePernes com Chae juuat Vetebens VY, peu

rembtion, cad fitare prespeeds af Tayi,
tortedepeesanens

Poy ee port tenes pred oo fueb cen
pec pudieee pad oe bipes brefrae tho ete why
Te q hee finere pe
tet far lictint shine eedereed amen will
crt abe bee DP th, ped sn cafeterias lee Phe pre jurdine slit dy Denna ces Deonnge eteseeed
tog thee Vaya beed tre thee vey of thee
Lobeeve Pea spepdie tiene Peeves prngeresa, AG BPrvreiedonsage sree esertane: cot dna
trhyibee, fear ponensngte bey i toler the places, peatalit inte hiychty complimenti y
veepaeee ad the Hagtiun Gaveriiient OF af the feehare were trmetential y praced

WA eel

cote dn dane depen cl

Dn TTT TT Tt conn Chere poser, seeeel ae Vieaee decker tetiattens

haben pereed tpye CO capasebenes

seovegd

cranece Pohiaye pepertedd thorns

Wook thee:

toy Pye Eee seed pec Chen Flee abieede la af

evvedeepereeens sod

Pre reoeedy abl ol Clete: planes, conipation |

creel nen fererer beak ill on, and anit cule, on eneietion, lave heen organized

far Col te necomplieh velit hey reunt foe thee pee poe of crabiebeinge tee Diy ti
Blind der thre: eesneedeage epeeige tevel cbecotelel tees
cyeg nafageniliie ccentinacs bihe place

ereruplih wader hin gemidones,
Chat gr em et on dether eluant ab cand
eencigghe Peeetee Mhe OCSenmebne thee Crone the leebaeenn maw He) Elaet Cine, Pereny dyn
“abe,

Sip nnenie

footy, sacteeteiene, cotagetio ain will fovegebede Preaer Peete bee sie leerdened
a] Fyeepes sepes OPN E feeeyveve ', ate sees seal se oe fetegss TT doretntpee senate TO

Cace Contig, Michigan, abe Doxhiall feat ane wail Perany de neecooney fea

eet ete youl,

ae de mention one or deve Cibagen whites |
i

any min that onnaet tive freregnht ta)

We find everything ber vba!
. |

masene boanake Chea homed ta Wayti,
for the benefit of Chem elatdren. On
Wednesday, Oetoher oI had another
moebnr in the same Lown, bat ata dit

tlie,
we expected, Bit we cannot ek een.
corning: ot bated, Crone Che Gathiat the |
two rhipeladda abend af aa wet all

ferent place, .

Vhuewloy and [niday, the band) Th revved yeti Tt our py poem mei
oe on “awe have ratged: the frat erop

J odvedel reeling ae rel Atahes Ufennaye, we have " | ua Heal roy : |

web seemingdy, with renewerdk piberest

TO

Yours ren
I" ovr Herrof,

surnveatiges the peopde, On iny tedure te
Woanedacd, Mas Cray (el qi vieure: for me bo
vieih Londen, Pianilten, aid Poronte, te
FoeHibate the deparbine ab (bres conetert cnet
frean Chee places, AL Vacrnneleane, PE Vou

f . . . oo brother, Clearre  Ciry
wo fiddler, sendy with hig wile aed ehil : ‘ . .
i Dreadet,

' . . ‘ ' , on thi eve of
thon, Fooetart tn @he dips trate; alee, Canada Weat on

euprnter, Both of these, however, 1) tia departure rem Nog York Cip tor

Noto from Goorgo ary
Evtraet from a tetra vite byniy |

oy |
po hia wie act
{

1

refs The diet temied, beenage hea Se Atmel Hiv.
could doo nething hit fiddle, nod Eto New Youn, Now 10, 1) |
Hint His cerviews wonte he needa Wy Dear Wife: Parvived bee on |
im Dbaytis he een, heeunee a real Wena | Wolnoahey aNornoon, mt 4 cedeks er i

teal

|
ahewwee Chat te wa ere eenesberedt |

Fee shrink Poel con Chan te werk for "hap in alark, emigrate eava, ne Yn ban
living, jae in World) he Che eaae, we biel " frat

fa Parente E ferme Che neeon| COLONY ne en ntl the way Chrengrh weil ive
vel erent ve nly, strel Chon lender | ag ene New Vouk whon wow

culled theen Te ceeorey live OU] tare! ton neared clwrs oa Iriee il
nother, ciel Poet confissa Cleat ne cpeebodes | wvta rather comfortable Chm ater ie,
locking oof al en ned wenn TE never st tied dere a eempanny al aon’ Sab oar
Fedele] oad protmp ont to Tbayti with (1 perenne Crot Hatiition, aaherd
tho choteniriatien tee cempenegee Cre ond Hanph, Oherlin, and atten ples, nal
topes Moasat cof Chest prorpele | ve y cenoently poo) poraanaien, wa
Hrece cot Cheie courte Cee eandeege iaplementay iia ‘mil shibbon, bE diavebet Mra,
worl oases Of thea have consaicleralite | Manpran hore, whe wert MongQélroit te

sefoaceet tions,

ment Pb ba coder wart fee tense Pee P Aten, where Mb Monroe lel, She
ranates ane of Henly ening, Cntulwr | then returned toe New Yoo avel Tet
AG Tfnteitten, were oieht rene cond with Mie, Plelley a eolony for Tate A

nnd wnitinge for a appertonity te
rogehe New Vouk, met bo gvenagedd tin
theee ter fot tle Poronte eclauy, aed
dl poe fegeethen Phe dsat ammied
ween ardor, Grefiety bene perauns.
Prveed falls,
Wo Wri

ter alnying 9 while there, aly alin
lieve geatin Te hina been refed in
Chatham Chat ahe waa herevetaciy
mpined Hath oT have apuoly to tee
Wet Ut. Elie elotelen UL tre faded ange
ale titenda cotta te tiny) * 0 *
ee ee HT all cat te elaae
py Tether do gen ATE Citar trate anny
Fdooneod, navel ives eepent Locantl dior,
E Ney Dalvie pve titaaton, With ade AO or
HW) peranna A pontlonian n}uvat ny
Hived fie Naa Pore an Peabo, whe

ORS

To semen Mardputth, fen Noe Tyan
| Neweeher tf Te i LE vbsitent
Fordel truest tnegea Ihe Gedling
pl ey Vievsegedater eye, oY, aneuid
neeedinge dn The Alan Met dards ehaeeh,

ir)

steel af

SORE Ne BE SIDR ATLL TE LR EO aa 2

Fi plonannt ride. Tnatead aft behg leded ines way Hil

Sr. Mann. Now bse,

Rev Wri, Weld, Detroit, Wied. oo To
the Chareh in general, Pwrite this to let
ven all knew hew weare, We are all
well A present, We were all seasteh, and
weowere Grenty one days en the water,
wee have been here seven days. aml we
Hike the county, and the eity af St
Mark, very well, everything: is ploncita
we had the death of au indiat and we
had anew born babe ew the sea, a hoy,
we have fod every thing Ghat grows en
the Pshind, and we dure Cound it better
than we thenght we would, we ean't say
the half that ts here, and we ean't sav se
mineh shout it yet heeanae we have net
heen here long enengh. “Phe povern.
mond Tree FalfTled every promise hi
Hiade.  Coorge Washinton landed with
Uheoatheremiqnints, EP hope chose toy

ver allow a} Give wy

Jove to all che Giends,
foo Nethira mere toaay at present, but
veniatn aan iene,
| Wirtuaw Waren en”
2 heaeph Cooper pites tis heave do all
Pat ida Viewds, Pam well at present and
| hopin, (hat Chose few dines may dil vou
Pall the eae. Dean't say anal Go ven
Pat present, i any persona chosire fo vomte,
PLombvise them te bring all Choir tense
HNaentinre with them, we Gib if very
wan, bat ih da enol night and: aiening.
(hoe tall baat been tall, retmemhor ve
Mt the throne af pines, te danetar Aeaie
bites tundane Pater Meneses cant rt tens,
‘ “ pod toe ray
tery ree sade ch dlalee nate area deity

Note Mrom Anral AL 1 Jones,
Ha Manny, Now Ui Pale,

Prfemt VP oomibraee Che preseud ate
mot de dafn ver of my whetceahonta,
Wo nretyed aati in New York on Satur
day meri ater we tet home, We
were nett dhe what ta Me Baw renee,
tho mpent a Very gettlonemdy mi,
Ve teak inp to Ates. Vella hoarding
Hones whe ka er Qet bog fr hor hanes |

eesti ate BLOT MEE ELE EAS,

twas;

, vee! '

standing undinproved, especially Chose
along the seacbnatth prevent the city
from Taving a very prepossessitye ap
pearanee, oo .
Que brin had anehored within a tow ,
pads af the shore, in eighteen ddhoms eft
water, Reside us tay a lige taanyue |
tram Bngland, having en beant fifty
. thonsand pounds ofeottan, and complete. |
ine her earge with lagpweod, The Ming:
Rrothors having arrived sately with her:
iminigvants, is fveighGigy with cette;
eotton, amd daayweead, far New Yorke:
Wo fee asmall boat and came ea
lH owas Satualay, aud se market ,
day the Sunday market having been
abalished, ‘The market street ties ate.
Wiately on the seaboard and was vind!
ally eovonst with Cents and sheds, “The |
_petsons vpesent aiibered: perhaps: ne
Matern They were selling and buy-.
“ing all manner of prodiwe, and a variety
of metiedinned avs, fumign and das}
mestie, Reed pork and mutton. wor
aoht in abnndanee by seme ef the Louis.
jana emigrants, and Wa native Tay tans, |
Bow ls were hinh-prived, vansed, itis sai |
by Che rush ef romigeants, Swed pees
re sold (hom ow lye fo twenty vents
wy Dashelo and eigats for Gray vents dhe,
Teaanted one hundad: and
aeventoon lapses, sai hein: at
Monkeva ambnmtes, a the quiescent as,
to whether dere aneany levees in avd
faantt thes, :
Not far fom the market is Che par,
ate quem. owhieh Gikes Che phase of,
“the Amerionn park. This a repoetable. |
ajoml, but almost aladeloss prilitio sq |
iy the vente of whieh Chom isa stand |
“Anily of atone, and Raving inne vailings, |
owhtol ta commonly teed by nvaiedans, |
and vesnabinalty by public spoarkers. |
Near by dea fine depended meanament,

shove,

winded

‘itera Tense” hadt by Vavaidont!
[Mayer atid eopatied Co some extent by |

rooted by Bivsitent Gehl din aiem.) St Mark, and
anal Prvaitont Ghiverien Tet Pie. |

wy sinner their work was begat ts ihe
only evidonee thac & Lawrnesbany

WAS Over suntomplated, ,
Government House” af which ver rsa
but its prinvipal iwhaligants are Mase

Vis is “ahe

ves,

The ovlonists are ted entiivdy 6) lama
Had lumber with whieh they were se
quainted, been furnished them, and
whieh if was supposed they wont hava
avery diflavnt aspeet wouki new be
povsouted. You a nth which | have
te wreand is Chis hear i vesclandtuy
gentlemen! cegutisest. the vor me.
wes whieh have made che EVALost pre
fonstans in coming te Tati have treat:
ably aevoniplished the least, The sno
evan ut May Aavoy as 8 brieknaken is
completes he finding nwedy salto fir bis

Hnvieks, as he indantis me at the onan

mously hag prive af dhirty sty (iment

ivan) doltars per thousand,

We nate upand down che havaeisnd
vations i al, pevhaps, thinty miles.
Tews is peem Gie ten Chousand dumilies.

hav is re Aindamental nas why
the immigeation should norsueseni The
seeeenitent have manthotinsnd che Ven,
We hie fa oonsiener the amal te che
sotto, atv eoat atone chousand: Span.
ish Vollars the mile, UC is vineually giv.
Huy Chem che money, tr the aaust will
bonvetit only (hemselves, Awd Me ble
Qoelates bo will wot teave Were weil all
Hovoseary Landa are snpbored, ant the
gviieval Maghiners otinmigeadien is put
twometion, We eit aw. . ;

L promised ty insett the Mow ing
vant,

WAAR OUND POGTNE,

Joanph L Willians begs leave 6) tn
tin the publin Chat he haa opened a
Roarpisa Hoven at Nae Grand St
wagent{lly solivits Amer
{eae paca,
. Ne what a che tnigrants but dur
aitivtos (AE WE CONES] POV vlay,

ATRL eR rat

e

=

LETTER FROM EPMEND BR, MOoLsox.  |townonce. Tf Mr. Stannard is in town, | counte more congenial to the colored A Voice from Hamilton, Ohio.

the commandant of the place, stating, at

Es J

is a splendid speaker, of more than or-

“ A LITTLE NONSENSE NOW AND THEN.”

;
|

T happen to be boarding very near the eee he w ould like to ee Sr. Mark, Now, 6 ES6b. rer im n peeved as K tu. 4) fadim “ should edin bo “ 1. ms most | Hastiros, Ohio, Dec. 9, 1861, ; inary tact and ability. Many persons
x urr® ~ ye There. he commandant with true Rhee com defence’, also those of Mr, Done. [erave: considerations, Aud a8 tere ps Stee Ene aly oj . 4 5 i fore. Ke
_ three very pretty girls — three of those [ Rxtraet.] lass, a 15 Sir: Enelosed you will find two dol- who had not heard him before. were

French potiteness, assured him he could
do so, and offered, at the same time, any
assistanee necessary in the premises.
Mr. Bird suggested the propriety ot
gettinga room for the eccasion. But

the naire, commandant generously re- ‘after
plied, *T see your pasport says you are I
a minister of the gospel. why not preach
in the (Catholic) church? — * The |
chureh !" responded his Reverence. “|
do net wish to create any disturbance.

Dear father and mothers 1, with: | Many ell people have mis of ad cline _ a eA the tone, lars a« subscription for the “Pine and | present on this occasion, and atter the
pleasure, sit down on some trunks to in- the i ti . Te ‘d mt il ine oe i vantages I ies »? : elaine Pm ned | Palin,” which you will please address to | close of the lectnre they expressed them-
~y form you that myself and coluny arrived he HAVER, ANE are long not MIB, OF pevery stiind-pont, Its cms shonid, James H. Campbell and Alfred J. An- ; Selves extremely delighted with it, and
. jthe next thing to it, Some are still loaf: jin my humble opinion, receive the united | derson, separately. If any of the back i many seemed to regret that they had
We lett New York the -----, and jing about the town, following their hab- jattention of the colored oppressed of | numbers contain information on Havti ;not met him sooner. Such a feeling, I
a vevare of —— days, arrived [HS silting down, picking on the bango, | America, T have, upon several anniver- | of special importance, you can send | Venture to say, he never fails to create

os . and 8 happy as) punch, its they are still |sary occasions, given my views upon the | them also, directed to the undersigned, Wherever he goes. In short. he is just
hrave. We were all more or less sea. [(vawing Ueir pay. “The government jsubject of emigration to Hayti, and [| and the extra cost will be promptly for-; the man, and no better selection, in mv
siek during the passage, L was siek five [has not kicked them out yet, and they | hold, in common with a great many | warded in postage stamps, if the amount fopinion (and “I trast that I am not
or six days, but am all right now, ‘They are only waiting to give the alarm about | others, that every inducement, effective 7

‘ a “VG «is less than one dollar. alone in this), could hare been made to
all say that the elimate agrees with me. | the black government as soon as it re- jin the least, having that for its object,

sweetly-indolent daughters, peculiar to
southern climes. One of them lives in
a pleasant two-story house. next deor to
the residence of the others, and they’
three usually sit in one piazza together.
The one referred to is somewhat the
prettiest of the group. She was sitting.
goon atter my arrival, with her mace
turned partly towards me — her head
peciining in lazy dignity on the back of
acodlsettee. * The most beautiful girl,

jin Hayti, the and) of the sree

ua It is the intention of the gentleman fill the position he occupies. I cannot
should be held out. There should be . “

2

}
d
:

madame.” was my first sentence, in Cre-
ole. « What is her name?” Her name,
my hostess pleasingly informed me, is
Mademoiselle B——. And my landlady
continued to be unusually well pleased,
the why I did not understand: bat
retty soon I heard her say to one of my
telko w-boarders, ~ Monsieur Cope wants
to marry Mademoiselle B a

It is ramered there are two matrimo-
between Americans
ani H: hare soon to be con-
aumimaidiw nsiderable eclat. Wed-
in Havti may be somewhat rare.
* bat ; : agairs from
these in the States. where peotle run
in the mornin:

tia. engagements

sal

thev are very diderent

St ritt Morning W hich he did. ‘along the shore, we saw whole families | t re se hk vy 1 befor - ld {all : ! ao mi “ 1 anne In conclusion, you will just permit me Dr. Smith's last lecture has produced 3
Talk about religious intolerance and ‘in bathing. The poorer elasses do not (ays of Ny s t ant betore we core a | acts giving one man the ight to to remark that we have perused with 9 Very favorable effect here. It has

done awav the prejudice of the natives: —O dear ‘dress much. It is stra nge to see them (1 e. me Is. our vo give you a hae legally Chslave another, ‘in vane great pleasure and satisfaction, your awakened a great many of us up to 4 :

hat by the he ue. f Hayti ! ‘wash clothes. ‘They do not use much I vonveniontseason At resent, the j head and erin visage, with” more intent i highly interesting and valuable work, te sense of our condition, and many

2 peaple, “Pros rhe tt Nine the iS proverbisl “soap, but use akind «,f grass as a substi oom in nich I am writing is full of’ and Dur ose than’ ever before, which | entitled a “Guide to Hayti,” and from are beginning io think as Bes :

stholle come ee eee ae hoatable. qe vi , , tite. |men, and ban't half write for noise [is significant that however this strugele | the fact, as T most certainly believe, the thought before, that the Republic of

Protestants Buta more liberal or hospitable people | Clothing ean he b ought here ata low | men, “ an is Walle e se. is 8 soe a howeser t uss ruagle question of emigrating somewhere out Hayti is vet to be the home of the col

avthins with DEVS? Hved on the earth, rate, = about the + came that it costs in °s aan ay Buck “d his so-c: De pete ee anes [OF this country will be forced upon the ored man. Some of our most prominent ;

an EREMIAW Buck, and his so-called free countrymen, they and induential citizens | 3 :

$ i :

exectent

Poors

eng mate.

Hoult to con-

pa aes

rasypowyee feonte

poneelyrarts thet they

totter ull find : sone IK. B. Monson, . . : . realy" Tans at yas aT vane ws .
. a Lath “ Ber wl pea fou an the hes d Leorely doons of selfelevation, and) in [imyselt, Yours most respeettally, ; Mayti is the best place adapted to that able. This. L hope with go tir to
oe ORD Vase settled in the vidley of the Arti- . ans i Tames Th Campnr wens St pile ace th : nes ner
a oa tal ; : : . : . vues ean ste ultccontrast to the inanner in HAMES TL CAMPBELL, prove the merais of our reevle in
: a phot yee and Pain doing welljand have as LE Prin FROM JEREMIATD BUCK, ' ‘ end, ‘ vee est

They enn.

ORS Gee,

oan

now needed

S ashamed of

T eame not te sow discord but to preach
peace.” The commandant: undertook
to find a place in whieh the missionary
could address an audience that night,
but finding none convenient, he returned
to Mr. Bo and said, s 1] cannot see why
if it is the gospel you preach — Is it not
all one gospel ¥ — vou should not preach
it in the chureh?™
assured no difficulty would arise there-
trom, Mr. Bird consented to do se. He
entered the ehureh, he said, and took
his stand by the altar. He avoided, ot
course, all sectarian topics and preached
only Christ “and him erucified.” The
people were all well pleased. and at the

conclusion of the discourse, the priest tie |

AN EXPLANATORY NOTE.
Wispsor, Dec. 20, 1861.
Mr. Redpath, Dear Sirs With this

I send vou two more letters from emi-

ah : : fuses Co support them.
Phere has been but very little sickness | . " “ : . .

on board besides sen-sickness. The |
iwhole colony joins me in saying that |

Perhaps you would like to, know
commune of colored Americans,

persons whose knowledge and_ sincerity
admit of no doubt, urging this in every
t Is

whose name is connected in the above
with my own, to visit the West Indies
in the course of the coming year, espec-
tially Hayti, with a full determination of

help but eXpress MY extreme rearet for
‘the necessity which requires him to take
his leave of us, although T am fully ne-
quainted that his duty abroad compels

And after being |

‘they met witha better reception than “Sommer hing: tout the cTimate, be wil
‘they anticipated. | everything that can Sump > al n cep uncer ‘ an ct
be bought in the States, in the eating (CVO Pom at het. re ‘fast for
line, is to be found here, and some | ME wen my blanket shawl-fashion
ethines that E never saw before. 1 fing Lover My shaders till after sunrise ; so I
~ ‘find it neary as cold as the 9th of Octo-

-evervthing that is imentiened in the! Sip . . ‘ .
is Guides as far as T have gone, ‘st, | ber in Philitelphia.

: ae “yi You masthink* ours was a long voy-
| Mark lies on the shore of the bay, and [ and sot was. We were ina dead
vessels can be seen twenty miles att. sen, | 4ger and sot was. e were in a deac

The houses are very laree and ‘aeon.! enlm for ciat days, and the captain had

and a ee eg, to go to Tvk’s Island to get his papers
venient, and many of them we re fine I Tt » nme of his vess y shaneed, for
buildings before the “revolution,” but | MG Ene NMe ob Als vesse! Changed, for
‘they are in ruins now , ifear of JeffDavis ; and running to keep
The natives are very f¥ jendly, and iclear of hisyessels, the jackass lost his

hard cnough, however we do, to bring |
the claims of an innovation of this kind
into successful consideration, having to ‘tations te our likine.
contend against so formidable an cle- | 7]
ment of opposition as nativity and ac. }
climation, country and associations. But :
the colored people of this country must |
throw off the bonds of affection for this |
country, for after the lapse of near two
centuries, we find no nearer an unity on
the part of the whites in the idea of cit-
izenship being allowed to colored Amer-
icans. And, farther, while some States,

following questions : —

those ports ?
2. Could the entire trip, including

wuimately making our home there, pro-:
_ vided we find that country and its insti-.
g. You will, there- :
fore, place us under thankful obligations
hy answering as soon as convenient the

1, What will be the lowest cost of
; passage trom Boston or New York and
‘back, on the different vessels leaving

sojourn in Havti of a month or six
weeks, be made for or near one hundred

him to go, I regret to part with him not-
withstanding, for I believe his services
are further needed inthis State, ror
‘there are numbers of industrions colored
‘men living in the couniry. who are
kicked and cuffed about, and drivicine
fur white men, and who would gladly

nity to better their condition, were they
but informed of the many advantazes
a Which the Republic offers to them

avail themselves of this great op-porti-

ee MEP Te

tian) per day for or wy hoard, and receive
itive dollars per da
“we arrived. We

land vet. Soman y have arrived befor

the States. We p ay four dollars (Hay-

y for eight days after |
» have net seen our

St. Marks, Hayti.

—~ + eee -

Gefird’s ‘Scepter Policy.”

d

re —-

are to be gotten rid of. Canada’s bleak
winds are incongenial; Liberia is the
enterprise of white men; but Hayti’s
soil is good, her climate mild, her re-

attention of our entire colored popula-
tion, Vorth as well as South, at no
far distant day ; they cannot commence
their investigations of the subject any
too soon, Wishing you every success

have sSienifie-
their intention to emigrate in the Spri
Some of them are very wealthy and in-
telligeni, and will go on their own re
sponsibility. Others will gladiv embrice

Pad

|
grauts, Tor publicati OW | : ; . ive i sources Inexhaustible, : or col- fin von ar : : ~ es sanity ai ; Re et
Ve i“ publleation. ' . hot know jus that we shall bye obliged to wait a Howthe Peoplo roceive it, sources mexhaustible, and there the col in your arduous labors in behalf of the opportunity sidonled them by the
AIr. Crosby, but he Is we , ’ week before we can fave it. When 1 tee can estitbisiy A mavuionanlys | a long-oppressed and down-trodden peo- Haytian government to reach a-

Mr. Lambert. the gentleman to whom
he writes. He represents him as alto-
reliable. Dudley, of course I
know, and is generally known here as an
iminstrious, reliable man. IT have the
inost implicit confidence in all that he
nas said. and would be alad to be with
him on Christmas dav at his Haytian
home, in the Walley of the Artibonite.
Fraternally vours,
J. N. Cary,

it. Agent.

gether

Sa. Mann, Hayri, Nov. 10, 2261,
My kind Friend, Meo fo oN. Cary:

from vouall Jam well, and hope this

nin Work-

o uo
wong te

wood health ae Dever had, J
Inge at oris trade, but foam

fariging in the spring, and Tam grotny

scribe it to vou.
The weather is quite ; pleasant at th
time, as it is now winte p,
The Sunday after our -
day for the national } sarade. We sa
What might be called soldiers, but the
dit not keep good time. They e

chave seen it, I will w. «ite again, and de-

arrival was the!

A few otes from Correspondents.

is
-erous an fraternal
Ww
y
ne

mareh well if they ch joose to doso, The
cavalry looked ve ry well, dressed in
new umforms.

others ue extre nelly well satisfied,
All the frien : J close by

1 nd love 1rQueen othe Antilles.
as Sen , .
requesting oY oa net to encourge any)

Your son, ;

Prinapeeima, Dee. 6, ISG1,
"nar Peters We following is the |

" | ple
i vopy of a letter Ihave received a few | Tos

to wn the invitation was

We he published, trom time to | the
time, nurrons extracts from our corres- | pable of self-government. But, possibly,
»pondencevhich indicate that the gen-
invitation of the
President? Hayti has met with a warm
response the hearts of thousands, who
are prepaig, as soon as they can leave
‘the UniteStates and Canadas without
linaking tugreat sacrifices of property or
iof obligaus, to seek an abiding bome
uy) for themses and their posterity in the

A press of
tinatter, athe limits of our space have

'sentimento worthy of a people sin-

which its been received by many
iwho aspito lead the persecuted peo-
sud
sed, —inanner which demonstrates

and successfully and forever stamp the
| lie upon the current idea that he is inea-

I have strayed from my intent in’ the
outset. In going to a new country, it is
necessary to have all the information
that can be had in regard to essentials,
and as you are the most informed, I will
ask of you the fhvor of answering this

ple, L remain, yours very respeettully,
Atrrep J. ANDERSON.
James Reppatu, Esq.

A Voice from New Jersey.
Trexton, N.J., Nov. 23, 1801.
Mr. James Redpath — Dear Sir: I
have written to you several times. and
First, that

-Mr. Joseph C. Bustil, Henry B:

uitul country, Ameng the former
Martin Perry, David Robinson. J:
Owens wife and child. Mi
Williams, Miss Marv W:
Elizabeth Williams Miss Harcier Ches-
ter. Thomas Wiliams James Thomas
and wife.

The greatest

revi

have also sought to see you.

ivar kraece
every ANCIWT

upon receipt, or as soon after as eppor-
tunity affords, giving me in your response
all the necessary information indispens-

What kind of eloth-
The best point of landing? and

asix weeks’ stay?

ing?
the emigration enterprise, and subseribe
Hasirres, Butler Co, Ohio.

A Voico from Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
Mro Redpath: Please to publish that

Jain tolerably well pleased, so far. , : :
. . soapy . . . : “ fertile anelorions ¢ of the Pi able to one going on a tour of observa- | oy: . rey SI Anes what
LETTER FROM JAMES To DUDLEY. Some of the col) yuy are not pleased, and | fertile anclorious country of the Pine : Thee s hy tour of observa | which you seem so deeply interested, Rev. Singleton T. Jones whe
‘ cand Palithe ever-summer land of the; lon, Tlow much money is necessary tor : paster of that chunk. 1s em

J received, by brother A. Proctor, your : , he ; And -in eonelusion, allow | : =: . = :
re 4, 08 5 an >) . : . . . eventec fr s r dreds |svon. And now, in conclusion, alow me |. oe . : ee Se, Sigtyeiva sanke Reve a
and was very glad to hear (More Cnuge Gon antl b write again, | pre ventecs from publishing: hundreds to wish vou all the success poasil le in i real, Que, and full development of their “Nee. Sixty-five souks Rave aire
° ae ° of testimials of this wide-spread | lo Wish You al the success posstle MW nanhood. ‘This is alaudable and worthy been eenvertad te Gad. snd the pa

neighborheasd, is now f
in the A. M. EL Z
the management of

be heid in this
progress here,
Chureh. under

To might open a. cerrespondence with
you. Second, that To might converse
with you mm respeet to the matter upon

to wit: the building up of a nationality
on the American continent for the col-
orved slinerican, Whereby they can give

about four weeks seu anc hss been ces
Unued with unremicdung exetion ev

object, provided itis a settled point that Peets fer as Many more are very f

sity, for sueh os change was abso

needed here. You shail hear chy

again sean, | Yours tor the mo.
Oxexiees CL Hroenes.

Loam dissatistied with my present
status in this country, and have ever
been, but be did net want to “leap in the
dark” More light. more Heht. | wanted

to plant ten acres of cotton, if my ave ave from Med. Baek, an aequaine pie hay he ton sel oven oa) Wan W. Brown was at) Pourhkeepsie : ;
a Lt have bail og days age frou eR, ne S| iUhat slave has too often set even a ae he Gth of November, “The (tthe subject.” LE have been mueh in-
hewth remains good, aeve built ot ie dianee of nine, who left here for Store deyable: brand on the forehead | N+ Yo on the 6th of November, “The terested in the perusal of veur pap Lo
| at . able br: : . TESOL & perus: "OUP paper
house, and am now working on anoth ay) Marks, in the vessel of 2ithoof August! or ihe dmaa than the slave. We) tight was dark, and there were but a nen pe Of YORE PApey rege
: ad | y | Marks, i : : i oshive, low hear hi oe sf think tt an ably-condueted journal 1 HAYTTAN,
a end ovall get ot done soon, inve: | Inet know of allel in all history to the | few eut Co hear him, He eave us a his- have some : i ey
cat bye! : ra aa. ave | dae. . y tlle ; stor) he ee ye ave some nicdns and some fuarucaee.
- : poueht a set of silver at eM sr. Manus, Qetober 9, ESOL. serait wteatt . tory of his lite, and a history of bis tour . Saye tw \ 5 i
Lions Mee We need 9705 things. ne! ish, Sv. Marks, . Se Marks | Bonerest). he invitation, and the Tavtic and vants : © tL Knew of some several fimilies et) re Notes trom Official Letters
. arte 4 and other things, 1 agshh? ah ory Dear Sirs Vavrived safe at St Marks codon of the eovernment of [fo Piya, ane the advantize of those || yh. : sy - sys .
at WN San AIOE tty fawn woote ai ow Ou he lth, after a passage of thirty-one aed a ctnes. inland and | WHO #0, ever Chose that will remain in speetability and teortAy and in very thir We give the Alloeing extras Umit
Lee A with a barter thon pon the ath, i » ° jHlayti, “Tlvgnce passages, inland ane . elreumstanees, Whe will ge, provid 1

él, and bath
And or miitiio while oor Ws

Ltt

yet and one-half
i j attended the

2 gewepnper, Dobe

“cnnldinas wath me in inv new how.
and te cat and drink good things wit
me out of my new silver, and Po wow
tell vou all about this glorious countyy,
ay far as J ,

wb | pasanye ont in this vessel, as Ee feel t
HDI Ta WHITE GL penne, di Coreg ae ed
ofa full Pe got on board of our ship, and

Hy | raise Ot

prea! toe , .
[free Govt o take eare of them in

yy , te . lite . . . » .
J diye. There was nothing whieh TP shia pocennie; tive them free firms; bo sus-
bh frelate in this letter, dit occurred en OW cai agen” te the: first crop ix being
vhevetgitnd and nurses

the United States ¢o be trodden under
foot by the white man. At the close of
the lecture, some of our friends proposed
Aneve ae bw techie again, water

will, They have intimated to me that
they would like for me to give them a

tions), tour afielal letters ta he Ghana!

Agent by high functionaries af the Goren

lpefure on that sphinet. Uchbowacsbaee omened Hart. Ther vill serve to show hoe

your paper to Orem. Some are firmer, the rulers of thelsdand real questions whisd

f . have seen, Pode nay that . . Lhe consente rascon the Wth . :
eth Sehoal = ati ie the | pe yo wo (sick id the government of In consented todo, Tf was on (4 ae and others who live above bound Tyre often and fenmely aginted Reswren the
Werhodiets. Baptist: aytoe the home for allinen who wieh | bartine co badly that E have had te limp | Have or the colored people of | November Chat he again Jeetured in have anite a knowledge of the State ot v mS
et yeyhivts aobyets : . . . H La , 4 : . nv z miu ped ‘y Ss sya at Se Ryast sey eles
, nn tobe oem, 2 will not go inte detail: babout the town ever since Pluwe been (og peel AJM. Zion Churelt to a large audienee, | oN ‘| ‘ Thawte iriends and enemies of their Rirlgraia Move

au pported
Vienop Payne
tev. Mr.

semen tne Bape

te

} fay
he Iie <

about fruits, and the elaples of this
country, for you are nequninted with
ther all. Lovill only tell you about my

awn progress, hive heen elected

several letters te frienebs in Can

about the town that Deano vive any
opinion about ah yet, Butarerent many

worth seven dollars Speradah,  “Pleve 4

aobore ; but this morniag PE feet consid.
orably better, and Pobave eeen ne fttle

ave responded to) their
linvitatio vel, in oinmeroud ine
SREaMees, oF mnetives have been ina-
Hligaiedds Someet ings, on Gwe aeensions,
i prevenfou broken py their sreMET-

Amere

Subject, © Revolutions of Hayter San
Domingo” ‘The leetire was well liked
by the friends, Mr. Brown's) presence
in Pourhkeepsie made an tupression on

We have only the shadore, and not dhe

New.
grent perder of iC as an Evangelist. |
fool as if Lamust ge somewher, Gr |
AW Hot, content so fangs as any man
Joys tights and privileges of which |

orseyy as L have Cravelled over a

ewe
a

the Secretary of Foreign: attuins

ment here.

. . Sy .

MAO v NR Nee Ta
Vador date of Ovtober al the Honors
of Coy

oe

and Bnanee, writes :

cme a Ayes Op alantmaptiging agpag™ Ebene sett UbES EPA Se OMIT AS AF peel ot

: nee Bieenoats re , ears . Cat . . .
Wek ones oe eat i ih. Mew captain of a company, ond the compony [things the Gadde saya about the country Gi neta ibayti willully perverted inte the minds af some to rete Havti Tam “tivested, But others. with meself are
7 ‘ ; byte ob treth veg cet ju ' es puoi SSNSEE Ie sutafully, Jean peak are Correct, and ninnbers are ta the Ch shock of potian ' the ir ayents in the rT) hope that on laree number will 0, An aitin . the result 7 this war it it ay Syrv \W yyu Ese
aan - PO ane of the language, enoueh te tell jtiary. lor inetanee, eoueerping the lee: , ‘ Sowa where they may enjoy liberty. | Phey S arn ‘ . . .
‘ ; : teetontes i ! t eyes | ll | | . ; 1 :
rat faraariiny the Prat stort cance, the Jadges that Palo love tl hepe . : : ‘ PUiited ates unecasiagly villitied, ’ enn an 1 ee ~ rshontd end seen, Ca see it there bea “ Lawserval a letter fiver the nen lees
. , Dt cpp bape He pisdypes Un Holave them very mie Inj lafferent chomsestio  sratnval rT ed bhed. ; ‘on tironte iT atl , have drome here tn dhe United) States, ; vr the | vs \l ee, it: . , ; eR vee

j ROT RL POE TENET { wrote ‘ Dinebhed, | even EAredtienedd: WHT is shite Cor the Getter Visa Ga sees Ul tear Consular Agent iy AVERT fo Ces sce
;
i

adit bot Phage not received any answer

pagan ptock of does about the town,

ninsinatio AGL thea things have been
Hone, aire enpable of dapat preel

stbstiinea,

not, what disposition ean be made of our
yoods and: eftets : beease, vew, we

ay . ;
the vase of Pelletier the

he vlearly stated the pry :

¢ . te, Bhyerng f wrote to the f° © ono OY he . . sonpe ne Metres ae cp . apy YOoNT
; Con cqeegste a them, Witty roth we Gan ny ontinber ef Chea enn te coen pile . : Ad sporo Tewasiry, so an
See ea an negation Palin © . pay | . | , Prey or ours we, Who have anflered Vian st | | ) vould veto get mere Chan lal€ for our he would adore as tis saiie oles gx
pret estat a utgeny Palin oaee or teree, bak haee keen fine an the streets every buy pam as for: . \ : : : ‘ Potaunterstin, NOY Now 20. os Oy ‘ aaa An
he ET only one copy of at le ,; | ile tl Airet aneddefly (rome thie Dbiaed: tapeeaee property ef its real vale, and seme ot dime Ghat an Umedaan Comunenis!
frimed one She other 7 , pr mares hee p, ane ealthe, Chey aie abn: ree dtd ‘ool of Step : ' own vala ‘por N Maaed x
4 ; ‘eile » * . . . * “ine quality There aye come an fine ee uit haut wa preol af 1" fer. A Voieo from Providence, RB. T. us eee valuable peers hy, ,; i has, without reserva ified wm che rane of
se ateataee ae fe sain : . . ‘ oe , i ribly demlizing dodlmence of alivery AM appetuted cas an Evangelist his sove sad ary hones ot slavery er gs
Ypres nee ialenptente Joan coming oul in the epoing, after Pop eattle aa bewer any, ae well as bees and ' bowl it i . rev ‘I Mr. Walter Booth, a respeetible eol | ul hal ae tL should | k a his aevern mM i aes Voda MANTTY, “Y ‘
. " Hea nee gt. ; . | , ’ Weatnnh wh Ge han tye ti Thess Zea an ’ . . Troup th Che Gta, tte Marte DRE FO yhettops af this alwantnablo fist aia a
: . ltr He ttietabeaead plant reg eatton, Give my deve to all Sheep, but the lather are not eo wanes onthe: ary | saith the ered: eitizen at Providenee, Chia writes of 1 share | ht he sy vies VA. oe reg
pees , : a ts ii tay friends to danether Pecwin Saath. es lan Vil a for rere Ponever caw flo combenot new or Toner willy le ; hear fou Vou idl perkips WHERE De wath see by te dan’s: Meee has eh eat
oped flere ’ Ay tc ‘ : J “ commis s . % “ ate wey ve BW . . . ‘ . I he ’ ‘ Th : : ; . ‘ . : , :
pe LEEPER IELE TIES nat pool; Pell dim to come te ayn: hnndsomer on better da omy hfe Mh pawerd obshy aor with words ef hate ol Mr. Coleman, whose recent eflorGe tn | inscaumiental, aul things eoneureiy in paper ef Mba. that be bas Aaa peak
. . te . ‘ * std . . f : “ . : . , : , . . . . ’
aaa Manes De C bad been road gets ay revenp hut “with Che award of the loti someting forthe ease.  Reeauses hy his Bxocdoner the Bresdeet Le bas

Roston to malign Hav, are Cuniliar to

1 Not he ean ek peb da five youre. deewuce | te ae fowill ti th t Vr. fick
tee nyt te fast ty eet command of tO refs ’ era, mele paseriticns Eee ro bbnehs gs A . ‘a " . . a, aN is Sas . ‘ . Ieady poe | eeganede tis paw Sada
be tbe cel teae fe J; ' 7 ' ‘a hea a werkang na Thies oe ne plies tae rebned ania fii, ail you eur bay pSpiret, wh tthe word of Gad, . nome of our render, Mir, Coleman lived) [HE a ian ts ned thee here, * Dae or ht G8 atnvady pour bis tvsrects to bho ddan: Sas
PAGE Ba Nie Me werk te the ben Lane qe Ie I; | if at a : : Leta new fo nome cheer»: 4, , : T . be somewhere” and te ts ditty bourne autres of Stare Byers tsady & messed with
Cent td theebies nelegequiread Oy TOTAL prCtyale, rn proud be tedd you pad the dest ol horses for ogee pemeberd yo: : : ; th Vrovidonea before ho wert to lay a. . . so hal Soy ‘
uth ne bee tg; ye wy . Pevidenees poneroaty poneronaly inet, , toseonre dt both for hamself and eh hus as be othe Riimset! a be wera,

there Gag Bietkartanee ty bhie Ciby Vast

fy?

that Joaia se sosae with ren, ond Posen

seeneniged ne ened ‘Phas as

the peline "

steal bsvncs Ryneninh fron Ua fo seventy

ive, Wily, tuned bwenty fives helt apiece

I

“Lowa datoemesd that) Vb Coleunn,

aimee Tie retin Crom Thay ti, ban been

deny ane ehuldvon’s chitdeen,

Voadd ne dere, bad remain, veurs, in

spd as he douttless will have aascion
trath Co fis fiends ai dhe Uatted Siaacs

' wae

| A Vo from Sholby Qo,, Olde.
5 for tne the bined of the free. and the fp eet ’ te ‘ :
6 Sane anatecres, x ; ETS " mye eee mente of the cotton pra wing: | laarnany. Sienny Cog) viving leetiren apart Hyd UP ut is hope ofa better day
OW oa Seen ah Latny  #" an the dna vr Phiee cheer far ales gee piel eon Loaw cate wheel Ohin Haw ro. UM ‘ \ needed, Pea Mambedh abiuiebiiee of prod Wako Warner. Bawty (unawares or rie Paevsas eau
tye Kees tart Nayhans on resident Setsaed three cheers for the ibid aeat yeh aededwead ate prbeass th, [rons ten | Mr Medpath Nie i About one by letter or WY presence that Alyn Cole NUNS

eet ty porn vney sar ab Ghee ape nisl

aber pears aed onere ureeetad, And,

fae rseumnesanre nod nemy fully uader
eye) eee ata hah gy babes poulie eh
stad eh ne pt tae af abyneee
After this erpianotiot FD bel

five

oe
Shite”
isin red
sae pare Fels dike slinkiny tober lode
wt

, Aoy t/t:
,
Vtiun

in reasubeanary thay f

“raiding Seipnear, in musical
Woy te puariidiartnons vpruh

conetiation three ehece fia tberty mud
equality!
Jorermaiy gon tee fiend,
dasa So Deming.
EPPO Bite of ho Meee,
ea Magee VPs vat thay HO) Died
Woe Sf hasnhesl, May Pietyoit, Mirh |
Dreay Hin Vhs all titan thant
Poe well ah paesent, mad hepe tiese

yet

bee tavedye feet Tetehy quid drew noted
Varsehe ad at wall peoeaw Bona dancable te ery
Chickens cell very ode py ane Chey ace
eceefleul fowl.
melel fr fertecne Naenrena
Wrath the dest cure hey wwrovtlel Treeuopare
mt fine ue uy chickens of Che dived in

Hite sean det

pounenes i Re

fonge ecards

Pte bbe beeiny airy bbe eerie iia

dre Che sponse raat ul Joecent, to Viens:

Pyenr opehon Ale, Clarria wee neti
| Huson ot Mavgeration, be
eb vend footie ab Chis place, whieh
“reaaed taeet with a hearty reception,
pad AT CE Masel Uden wernt tren te
| iit Whe prospect oof evteention
eee ven ane tho hind of ehaiin aud
alaveny, ude Gh ia the plory af the pre
dominates te erial cower €he ool

reroll leas

ions reprtadion far veraeity and didi
try br not worth ame ateaw whore teeta
lewis and dhe disci te hold aneth
er tectaee, 1 yen think de worth while, |
Will none a lotter of drdrednetion Go5 be
ren to béibonoe, siting beldby wha
he nel Trew eh vsti tay be
placed ear what he nay about Vast, or
aay other plawe he tae Heed Nad Chis
will npply te the other two that tive

rs,

ert opportinniy Ga nde ven wth oa
few dines, whith PE hepe may net Tre van
Foutetestavel sven Ue Ceustoay

Pach meri of the USth aed and oe

A Voive from Tarvishung, Pennsylvania,

U virescens, Now te bse,
van the Prteve we ? ‘i " Pew tS Pages .

Dore Sf Tarvart ina selt of the pres

Viv

by

Dib RR Stath avrived: Ter ai Sab,

mautiy at St Mark.

January CUE che prvsend dine
Cho sande sardine Chany (hte sunte anges
Trrnmadity ecoasionad by those reins eben
dowd waladios and maligna’ davies erg

Vow haw deubthess Sead af

the dina eared Wy the overdo ie ef vant

wes aang Che astabhohaonts ef iho oipee
Vhik ast was aeaand
the abradant uafive whe hav talon cinny
AG gates of

Pho

. ! . . ‘ syed neven ned dnd pooatenity nied the . ps 6 tte ye stot ihe COHMREEN, as wel) ae one
Veeuth rery jnedje She beeen cope settle fea tines will Sil you dnd your bonily fee commetniention be sween the ollieiale, thet bewe op \ i ‘ Hawera af cetiemead datedy with hima. Phie TP oaay | rained Teves until TPreeday aera, i bev} hi y hy ‘ , n N :
‘ , oe y . . ‘ . t Woevent TOT) Me Oe ‘ . . so o? Uy et te, IN Fae BY SATTE Sat teh ;
Seicgace HH) Pert Oh tee we tenets Dace Pie the sana Cire ty dave be angel Wal aed pee wliee ae ned ne the Vnige le af lwota Mle tt v hj i hiadon j Hava my preva hrowlodsee Loleoeht dw tren te ten cay fer the Wat Dae t i bw a ’ ‘ “NY ‘ ' |
cae” om . ‘ ‘ ns : : . : ' evepbade tev eetesth Fred on] nan " . . . . wel wealler fer a ame at vats oY :
Tre atelier nbelarees and Suere wee Saeut Callen, Pieuwt  ¢ Vatnporsstory, wid | bacediterr toe trevor tent | ani ' | Fayed Heapupaible for thin ay bere amt lbs oatay heres te visited dhe weet a \ \ *
‘ : Laneenint V0) Venanl op bal! thie ' tee [BEE ieee, TTY) Mt e : Jauelwe yraadory Ca hee desartin pusent nay bo someidond, it inept te ite
bitter d aladhoent men whack bate hetessio® LO Darabert, wed te all uey Pie fied perad of (ld pat at the fi hve ; at nny Chane, Hiteher proparatery Ge hie der: soe an
, . we . ‘ a , ie , PREETI Her ne etiedadidl, wirteline: A \ | Beate Lecvie  Sledanee of ray wean eurtiapal vast
papers wean yes byt cbaine gg, MMe eedbiena ene sed all Vian Veeppeg | Debord Chea Dane babe, Held vay ceienned | He ere the i latest kvm an (ita tenia Tev€tiay State wets \ i ott , ; hte y '
an aan fen te , . ' ‘ . I if Oe EDtegeses, UW Te betde copra te ects y . : ‘ : . TT OTOEN OR CSETEOE Wet tens i yd F
Aieyenye henge Nhe gerne i thea Mb pou bea thot Dobie cory pole sue DVictrpcents Healt thee afbne woke dae cede, I | Volooa fram Cleveland, Oto, ited the Uaien Sabbath Selatan dhe i aa ’ ‘ ‘ " ' moe “ .S !
ents . ' prrae ‘ ; ; . 1 P ‘ pbpeeavterty Fettcten Cfyny Cerdetnn oof Ceanenelo ‘ uA & L Uren ai ‘1 4 the af vndoowten uae dey weather atta, bated
jeatehe wp Pe saldere ed tare greedy bey RE perce cot bere aed be the contig | led aed the fipenioh wetshel neve hy dda, Wolava Creverivyve, Dew tO, Na Sowa tenby teria Chive a Che: ’ N :
cattle, aol banye > Ws ty |v Mo eerie ebal, eon Very ttre WHE tetrn | le cheteagee wll be rene,

Bitte te WN We fates Sees White yin een

. . ' PATE 8 notte (ayes viv teins ‘ .
eyes! ead PT tlh abet the cenit Dh Poe Thee Brie be pore cate ventneben i cron pies bone Cth auf tit mel j | "TU ds dae neon Ce enema adie at Ge fi addin Ge dhe Geaehora amt vohelins
. ‘ ' whddiena wi vey deere ben gan “ . ' ‘ . say . {
She eet dinee ine Mark at betet wee HEB piece ad the peered aiees pale pte Pluie peeerad ws niba con es at Hnvthin gevernmient faethe epptoeind | Nothin abort ata vredit ata Gotan: . . :
IEEE Ti uy, vee : . ’ , oa a DC i : \ iv de te han a: Varixy, tue New Saeepewaae
pid Fone Severe cnatt, trae tevehy anatiaiedd five Mgtinn dell per weet. thay, fie ta tab cone at hie tated, aa he fae! intones sbpunia tat Haateal | pooplo al Amerbon, rid Aeediar ane dn deepened Teety diterent be dine toy tian
OREN re be . ‘ \ ‘aby fa be etanddeatoed, cote / ton ; . ; : \ . Lo
nh gai evened men Chee dit cn Poraqqeet he means, ba cit days 7 bandied ad acces ane enpicd The saya Ho Hittin defeotorth, wo will tan fone leaire Ga Tamthe hentia fhoe  FOhe ea vntibaer at (at ecedaion Ue nt sc ophe Bhvsddone the divnded osiaee hes
’ . ‘ . ‘ : Oe ed 7 7 Saye . ’
bite Matte Mh, email py aeeranpeed Wy on Pde we geet ne need Phat yan ee | Phat fee WMD eee ab cen y thie gre nae asfootitane fuewinel HH ij Hom Chere Totland Ge gay we a ea Paleanaed (ho teaelena vers welorby Gea vveote form dhe Soe, that vase dams. gal
‘ ’ ’ tage . : 1 OW tthe wy \ ’ . ;
eecatthn nth of teasie and wl tte. fie Aandig, tavern EEE Phage been vapebet site abl ced thee the cmbyroeate Wohok a | im ,; bone pps mf yvonne mien, Tae neiilod Daeiir Gite, eamieaihy  eatrentiny qher adiyatetedy adnttds sad be gas wy is
: . , ' . . ‘ torgeer avid tTosbapersyl, nvtne , “ 1 : . a ,
pony mn? pernatinuny watnher of ped rod ite ie Natedi) id dane eens thie bene sehr eedttes cere debe Devel Whe de Ta tia foal ple fy iy m thou ' Heat | toe cvefele arden yoene cone Elves ap baferd vn odinasetab. flor Tree et und bos Ge oy nvtinn Cla atte tbat ommgadion i the Viadieanient of Vga
" : , ' . : ‘There ydeete, whtle Ebeet eeon at bea ‘ / YY . . hoy : .
th telat sath Seaere Phone snebbionen wel Poe ove please oh with Wee plane [that geen tobe ae teh ol lair Daneel ane ravines at thle Hive aay will be Wore all quite yes, Tne sprer ined, an van Lesraet (Teeny c Ger dae dilispent ml Vossels qari, Gt ayn wy tase eoud bard
‘ . Abieg epenotuge thes ie ey weak ave | yoy rT) : \ i \ 4 vy Cte varrenag atte ‘
yao oF hed. bist gree ehh heeerews ove fasel weeny RTT TT ' the dopa ve yt de eel , aad own eon pave i bean Moniarate hy posing Wa have mesel Wt Drenuee  seteseena tee nena inelapee " resceuet tel oe Clnete ats { . thom Chee

hasten wage OA Maree Serre sede af

very welds preernh bat theo Guide

ptt dege Pe bese Vatob te pleetitval

elites eon Phat gee of thre ibaa, vice beens

Hhiee ee yrnpis beer geet dating, sped Pert three ae vt
‘
5

le;
thee etc Pita, winveden tae whe be

Phare Nore

Cormeen, nid detivered a

Me Aimed Nedpurt, bay

beer ly cna we we eesetel ap bale Tea Treen cena

Vindeyes spesenese riety, ter (hornanty os, ait te

an Cho fvdereapted: Tatar wll tye auido

nactven, Th haneenane wee fersaingy wad un Mint ahied we deere Cube pe blree pemen we cot dae The enn bela, combo dicaduabde spurt, memitbood faattibed by dhe ope desis Cad The Glow Gurtid te Ins hil Vane Dcuite ote cynte Chav eames
“ pede pendent a here de Page eae, intel Neawuan vie, Heust |bey peg ing TINY poestnveds al cette (on Vleet Gl bie gtefes der arene yeota prmaatat atineaphiocte, atl wae feed (hat | elie Wat or ito’ vanebor and ninety, SPW contir oe perdine cet
PO ee TT 7 AT Nae ee a Pevbipecy ced Hed ool cuntise TDoespce cneonns We ere erentel witb) (ae aie aapirit wed ov tie teh Clone ter tee voila Nn) \ vail Our dittionttine wath Sean ne at
iar in Hagtucd pnt nae Ain pete coil thes Sov, five dnd wie feed Aer ge Pepe Th Vbbrde tee iTE fiakees Oia tanned cots Voua tin Haytl ITTY) MeL CTE CT TT CT mo Larnn din ot onl UO tt Chat auatond en N Renee
nyt Nei andere eg suebeag Wie Seve PE gens fealber rbeaatil reader tteh, erate Cele | tre gi cctiti ties Ww He Ati Newey Weses bee ob oesatet hy dbetes Clee Heed ing oat bee thie Arahat, Cas nateatyes aud ‘ “ * eviwattared vena ‘

boy wets be ee pe ered Vey Nhe weadebieee in ee _ Marke Hee Teen a very bvcnatibal Po Cr asblana ie PM ae PO Hee verebied| War Haagen ta tea | trvdate the wei Mite trealeay °

hie Pasha Babe bes uaecrinb oun webs, eye white ata tel at the bos he Lteec, aitided at thes buen ob nea Heres venetian, ote weitel Praveen Pad die neal Clmamety ea lane ey: pero detes yyy tater att Uatutioy Le. the Soouetary

trey ils geectten ban thie tay PL With
Vi aber interes pally sissedienn Maretagehe
beh Nag wrine. Mitel wrod bAL oo
ahh wean, Wie D Seay tree wrsdesane we beady
“Mylege

tive

eget Wee ti Mine iqeranbe ediesatel
Pondeoge cob eee sensed Tevet Pee tee y acl
farees PA beeaby teh genet y tot dpegee

ideiper Dearaee free Cree seed fete Pine

they

per ceeretel be, iT ced ben, beageerrel, al
Calf Woe daeye plenty batt ak haw

tarde, ceneed in Penepiletedy walled day aed
fier Died fade ab every cntbonnee ob thn
Prado, sel (lhe | feredederppeed TAL ee
wht yt OP Iere ae wee ct (De peteele,
eetpate thee Nave
VeeeibeDiaegras tq eees tbeteerg aed. Pt olbeak thyec

Visine Ween, eed opepensd vel

AD) ETE TL cc
Niawona al hat peraporrnelooda, die Wheto all
POPE OOE dialtone af poomend datenuad
Will bie peedad ter |

VApi tee, (Mabey, Pt 0 Tait

TORMUM UM CO
Che anedyfent Wee gre teeta pied ina te
Hed wv ptadtion, bar witty te Galt tant
sole of nie bia WEED eid Han lalitpea,
lcdsbereotinnia, ated Geeteaneaetvtenvetnn ain
Wvaitable Th og ie eenithy any tere

Ey retrnes fee attain avebiagieeee thts
Woven, vestevernantoase dana CUvet
peor, ved Chat ear Ce Geet liestiess wtf
Thole venth
prergpenity, ane
jorista Tigh eaaptinent Go the enperin

forverw terdagye ta

(vt liberty,
Ve tlront

veatodl Chat
Teapepritnenna

Sowa ANA
NN OY wpe Ge vst Hay tha ebyamede at) oie

Willa

°
Hy Maan ane Navas

Me Mayk aid Vaquaan aie

Vovsocnmatint yen di ddinter rei

BOVINE TOMER Prine geod hges, tard owed Pnyeld fda e prerer cape ebondinp oa Me ae Nh. Nyutth May Wen tbh penned Wor tasver felneteol sinel Genet wliee tre fterdiant, camel obeand fay anata Woe sydeunnte \

Whe War Shr Mind, ancora tend Vonnys fete Peon Chea eyes aes wate deen [deen the 4 ete beet mene Oder onebed Hy, pen ge peaadyed a better Der Mr pelea) Geta UGG at Uieae we nive dp Pintenttan ¢e anil, ats ven eanly stay, tat perv tioutarty We the Vater yest Brn
betchy tevizentoninie 7, White beige oenibeod ten hh Unie bee Poth dedi, cote fer bier bee | eadbe cred gnade Ana bine fe etre | AT nel WN evedese anny, cater tangy Cer gente, Ean PB GRent  Aageteay, tlie Ait al Phe ek Hoy bran EEseprantation ont Tart Viviane vestte alien ww Wave dana ty wrpest that a
fw persed Pfendy pen, pew heed fey ffee thee bedtate | Ageocede inn polecythin wen | AL de dered yy verte anny ce dite bee teens Con HOM TELE gt pret prove al dovledange Hore | Move vv voteted Telcos toa eeth Eey tees seer Mbeeed P aneauranasestavenned ATWO Y Oo peti aviv yg | Et wnanneabeny | wurignants Nee varie qnae
breenieeanis one Hailing, 1 Nie Mitianat dea AW binda of fect vratinge Verde tiene Tiere steer Mee rrr beeto Detter AP Oi Adin” nee tbe t bene eed a foott Lanes spp HES Veneer Gon, Ubony CDavannnaytasennd eter an Tavelay yeti Us Will sreetengs Ww ie \ a yes hw
Behera PP reac tel, Merit Vig Miners ce Meme Sertes Dade writes nae day Pte Tal they nee deneted one Dba ga FO TE Eh cement booths al welled OTL neta tiie, OY Masneby enetetinay Gothen tag hee tae Wolves ow Hho native, happaly, aie ene
rae rnbedl Nhe fallen nye ner tbate Cee ee debe, abe Ded ott bed When pond Hatardage wi eens coetvbile aid Padajeeta ean ceminentod Prem the hn Ok (rite tera eel mned dateredtiay ads | Ae anein ad aged weathers we van but
mele New de bane a Vite teehee deed bees jue | qed oapibe, Ae bee rae wh PE Mek pte fore allan Fa tee treapebees tiaabilll betserpeten ay Fetety war Dolor Fre ttpe POW Paeen, vanes Coe tbe Gtr Tiel Gteeade ee chyba STAY sti YEE aati eth race G1 dba pee voit
Hot basic Vg tantmes Vbapratagele se been ne Whibley! Un OP LE ee Nodpath, Hoy Potato feet the tee teita od died Aten od Atmateas (ie awe tae Wo TE Ue vtetietg Svabapoed, 1 Vas Vadleserspaley wh Wevdipeat pote mind wll allow ih RUUD TLS i Ww
| Lvaslae Claatiinasty ec atan viata ty dat Obey baboon at latin

Pear aeste nite telite ON Nitin Ne nee gee
aghast SD Phe popsipanbeed babe pestespanh bey

Poise, deal Penni ge tend,

wernente cob PPeee ceteedgecaere ber P Poona perad vencnegy

We Cand toedparten cl Naneere beep, Chae capt

Crap peapul COUP OC peeneney

Abe Clee teed gel, Veit eee Peirce OT TTT)

Jeet ood ecpnerent boone Gra Clee a bieones ood orstpee

WV ysctincty,
NOVY Pbbeteteteiney

(hon
Cea ney anel vers eevee

DD WAevthedd Claw ainlypant vee tn
Wy Savtih

els

iy
\

nid OI

Sd

A
7

mre an

o Palm.

YEAR NUMBER,

BOSTON :

THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1862.

WHOLE NUMBER 130.

Che Alpper Branches.

~The Caliph and Satan,

TRANSLATED PASM THE PERSIAN.

noOne frown Us otter.

are s

FLEE GE WE ©
r

«meme

Delight in God Only.

YU

trepeiage

eo vaagt?

lppegde
tbat |

speed wath

tee IL:

Luttnehas me Gath Wace

L - 4 bynes an ye
4 ‘ pa the o that che
‘ Pea Ot Nie ty deaths Thea?
potent nu
Mae “ut ree
. : : preaten,
eg tee noe Pur ate het
; aes ut Gs phen igi) ath
/ ‘, 4 ont Me tet
Sas Pete ine euenty,
en ‘. ‘ Prete thats baie my
Yue ota,
Sn ’ i eee
ae . ate Syd orp te
i stay ae tropes hs tte beacin te
4 yor teagth werte te pete tate,
4. aod cotta teh ce,
Wovtee dts pee Gate,
“ yf ead te Pert ea nege
vee ; we ‘ Btets poten
_ At tore ate bee,
“ ' Wt a it, Ob Dita ets ene F
Yur ithe eed eit heat,
f teyty tae fear thee tle ane

oer et Cob teatecky
sig diet

porous, be

teat fiy is
thoes

atthe rs

' ’ ‘ I ,
Vest bec heteg ete ccatites ab taMaprort Sts, ‘Vist

Wye Gre nat eee Nae taf oattn,
Nn. '" : et tet nts
Bees ‘ tae Cuglite att ohare
: : ; \
Mat mw 9 ea § wed tee tbe bebe fore ccbeny peaed

a begat Lien Laird, testes bat tated wdint they

beep hing, abate teetnapaene d oithy

fart gd thane wd ane Phee, ahot bee OF

say ee Jue

Hla nat preg baleen eal
Perret on tag tee Pan rete Paster cree tr
| A ee ee
Poe nape ee nite beth titer ertateid Pile
Vere aD beet, her map ceed al
Jue Mruneia Guuha

Tha Bawwaiy oF Warn Late,

been AAO fearcbaee

RPP aT CPD A

thas

ate ate Eee ea duite Chapte great ped

Pee neue nd

Neti ee OP intie ei

ado Pre ae pee :
Fore tb alee ype  egh They Leap et) Dhar ne Besar aiVbbes
Phe teeta teh te Se pebgtgts, bed the decned ooh tee thes
fees thet neti
Otte rete gt tthe weed ot Uy eeigh lee,

Hinight w

“slipping away, with horze,

Fates 5 ) " :
Jac Xepoila 5 leaving the emir to digest the

leas proved a standing joke

to thy trast:
that reherh up.
the stuhtar ded

and deceive uot die man
Sp De assure doit is dess evil in

ip. hear the whisperings
ded with moderagions
the bayer make a

mean and undaast,
nine thy heart:
dif in any of these

to tvamscressed, take
’ aebmake speedy repa-
ration fo the utmost of thy power,

Ae In Oo

Uso ops.

tuto
yre,l

Che alm.
OTHE AFRICANS AT HOMES

BY REV. RR. M. MACBRATR, M. A.

CHAPT x.
Yit-—Kane Vultures—City
with

Interview Governor

—Whining of

fD2Oudney—

eky Omen
s—Be lee—Desth of Rich.

s—Ane ru No Breeches”

. We traver
land date, rocky deserts, tertile villevs,
and large ferests, intersected with rivers.
Here are inany valuable trees yielding fuer
and medicine, extensive cotton grounis, and
neh fields of onions and corn 5 so that the
of the towns are well stocked with

Y

we

attended

by nearly ten thousand persons,
und was ]

. 1
al,

Aung adegres of civilization and

find in wthird-rate African town jmbedded in
a deep forest.

Negrocs are pretty sharpand cunning; but
are ng mate for Arabs in the aecom-
The biter is often

plishinent of deception,

same, ity Of whieh the following incident is an ex- tan had scut a messenger express, with orders |
6 fe . “ . a . ro - ae . ! . . .

ample. The Governor of Kateena royeted to have ine conducted to his capital, and to) knights of Malta, They had heen sent trom

ap Aral, south in the
and enueed bin away hy splendid: promises.
This ded had wavelled tauch, having aecom
panied [brahins Pashia’s expedition to Syria,
er expediuon to Wurdofan 5 and
hed thas dearned many things useful toa
tre so that the Doctor, whe had hired ~
hha for the whole journey to Timbuetoo and
baez, was a little disconcerted hy the loss of
.

aud anoth

1
Saler,

2ETVICGS,

that ganan who tricks oue master is quite;
ready Ww trick another when occasion offers. j
He mounted the young Arab ona good horse,

4 4

altupon hin when he was accompany-

an ornartunity of |
rene, And avcoulre- |

,
and ect off forhis own country with

It doubt
against line 5 as

could.

los, ond affront as he |

the Mfrieurs do not carily foryet a ludicrous
bhinder perpetrated hy another ; especially

when connected with the idea of bain ‘ neryed

rie?
The enuntry now changes and beeomes
clear of wood, exeept here and there a few

large shady trees, recanted to hy wernen of the
county wading refreshments. "The villages
ate panuesous, and the rend i thronged wath
peuple of all cond eons Vhie daa hyn of.
Oat a pproariiny Klang, the peat Chipotle
of Howe "Pout Fla ne euoner pais od
tue gates, Mio DP fellrievoucly iiss putter
bor, from the flee hing deseniption of at
yuitn by the Avibe, Pexpeeted da pen a ety
uf curpring gaandenr  § found, on the eon
neaky a quarter of a mbes

Pree y, fhe tree es
Som the walls, and in inany parts penttered |
into detached groupe, betweety Vinee hareniiut
pote Of yates Panicle dine pared all
the poss Db tater with ing totlel Chavis :
dieced an an elerint naval unifoon, with all 5
‘fon mob on trbavielosd tron

ut all

alloyed gee be

if rputpitye missy,

af e
’ Sib )

Cf tis head read fo page

patent Oty these oye Tie tes,

jer

hy without watiee or remark 7 |
Ae he town be none of the Wh dis
patare vith one of

eleane I,
Mer

hagypaly prtraided hy
Phas

Creinebance pbrodiee.s:

brace all Kinds of live stock, veeetables, and fore the marriage ce
other provisions, fruits, md many descriptions when the bride atte
Amongst the latter are ply his henna

of merchandise.
mentioned sword blades, knives, and

tin,

brella. for three Spanish tlollars,

A custom prevails in this market of the
seller returning to the buyer 2 discount of |
_ two per cent. on the purchase money, “hy well as in
way of blessing”? that is, in plain language : Nast.
The sheik of the market |
reculates the prices of all the. wares, for
which he is entitled to. something more than!

/a “luck-penny.””

ahalf per cent.
tioned at some of the bouths,
tomers.

seissors 5 Yet she whimpers when she is
writing paper. armlets and bragelets of brass to him!
vane and silver, pewter rings, and other trinkets 5 where ;
Athowowest: for hewho gave beads of anther, coral, and glass 5 silks 5 tur | plicity.”’
athy Loner: au dte withhold ban shawls, tebes, and other dresses 5 coarse

Bands of musizians are sta-! These snakes are

plasters with her own hand.

So truly does it happen every
‘The more politeness the less sim-

On the eastern side of a mount in this

val woollen cloths and ealicues ; Moorish aml) town there is a hole in the rock, said to be
wther vaudy dresses; Heyptian linen, check-* the foot-print of the
ed or striped with gold; erude antimony, ‘met rode to heaven.

camel on which Maho-
On asking the Negro

‘iron, ke, Xe. Captain Clapperten | who pointed out this sacred spot, “if the Pro-
bonaht here an Kuglish wreen cotton ume: phet’s camel had only one leg

he replied,

“Oh! God did it.” This ends all controver- ,

/sy an such points of faith.
Jugglery appears to be common here, as
India, and other countries of the
The performers, who are probably
: Arabs from Barbary, carry about snakes ina
bay, and inake them dance to the sound of a
little drum ; and play other tricks with them.
very venomous, and often

to attract cus- 'exeeed six feet in length. But the poison-! little outside of the town.

ous fangs are extracted ; and the juguler is

The butchers of the market are said to'also furnished witha roll of cloth wound

ree-Ud Birni-Suitan in PUMets@ all iInanner of tricks with their meat;

round his right arm, to protect him from

and cven to stick sheep's wool ona ley of! harm, in ease the reptile should become too
yoat’s flesh, tomake it pass for mutton. | exasperated and try to bite,

are Yuasting on wooden skewers.

Pursuing oar journey castward from Wur- Near the shambles are cook-shops in the open |
m witch we deviated in urder to visit, it; consisting of a tire, before which alarge:’The whole of. the processes are
seu varied country of number of small bits of fat and Jean meat! here.

bits are scarcely larger than a penny-piece ;

und when cooked, are pleeed on
which the guests are helped.

Kano is celebrated for its dyed cloth.

The cotton is grown, spun, wove, and !

These tite! dved In indi we . , 1 Sancendt “ . . : :
These tit-|dyed in indigo. ‘This shows how abundant: ! Sansanding : “I shall only observe, that no fuge, or equivecation ;

ly Central Africa could furnish England |

a mat, from | with some of the articles that it much needs. | ever threw the smallest gloom over my mind,

j Lf a free commercial intercourse could be!

remony is performed ; j inedicines that would preserve the affectiong | of Mahome
nds the bridegroom to ap-: of their gallants, ensure them husbands, or, |

performed ; something like that which Mungo Park ex-! smile at the idea cf a Ci

Fwhat was

slave.

and morass

| After this, Dr. Oudney was seized with a
‘diarrhoca, which greatly weakened hin. Tis
| cough also continued, (he was in a con-:
i sumption ) and he suffered from inflammation,
; for which he was cupped by a native, in the
:mnanner we kaye beture described. Unable |
to ride on horseback, he was carried on a;
(litter placed on a camel’s back,

croached upon from either side.

who cannot be amicable.

stop.
i coftue, and desired to proceed ; ‘but before
the could be lifted on the camel, L observed., animals for the butcher.
the ghastliness of death on his countenance, |
iand had him immediately replaced in the |
jtent. I sat down by his side, and with un- |
speakable grief witnessed his last breath, |
; which was without a struggle or a groan.” |
| He was buried under an old mimosa tree, a |

in so far as outward forms are concerned.
Yet they seem to live under the impressicn,
or at least the sense, of a Supreme Power:

| Dr. Oudney died at the age of thirty-two, | the bounty of an “unknown God.’ It is
; fa man of unassuming deportment, pleasing | necessary to be very cautious in receiving
|manners, steadfast perseverance, and un-! what a Moslem says about other people's re
| daunted enterprise ; whilst his mind was: ligion. They haye no idea ef anv other god-
j fraught at once with knowledge, virtue and: Hiness than that which consists in formal
'religion.” His. surviving companion felt prostrations, fastinzs. and pilgrimages. They
hristian praying in
private, which they regard as a mere subter-
and they cull us Ka-
well as the pazan Neerees.
When they know of a Chrissiin who carries
about his “beok”™ and reads it, and when

perienced when he lost Mr. Anderson at!

event which took place during the journey, — firs or infidels, as

tilt L laid: Mr. Andersen in the grave. I

Uh . arkatiehold ¢ . Srode | ‘ . i . . An . . . . :
The slave-market is held in two long sheds, | opencd up with these parts of the country, | then felt myself, as if lett a second time’ they have watehed him (whieh they do) and

one for inales, the other for females

out for sale.

being carefully examined.

be returned within three days.

“ At seven in the morning, T waited on!
fic informed me that the sul-

the governor.

Journey,
I steod in necd of. |

provided for all ny wants ; but that f felt
profonmdly grateful for the kind offers of the
sultan, and had only to crave from him the

favor of being attended by one of his people

asaginde. Tle instantly called a fair-com-
ium.
leave,

Lafterwards went by invitation. to visit

[accepted him with hanks, and took

uthe and dressed him in afine bernoose, that he | the governor of Hadyja, who was here on his
‘return from Sockatu, and lived in the house
Hing the dgxaer out of town ina gay manner, At of the wan-bey.
Levenpngt the gavuyster tok

1 found this governor of
Nadya to be a black man, about fifty years
Ol att? Ty hee eee ar :

in usually a little raised, and is reserved in
in country for the master of the house and
aaitors of high rank. Ele was well acquaant-
cd with ny travelling: nian; for the moment
[entered, he said, laughing, “Tow do you
do, Abdallah? Will you come and gee me
wt Hadyja on your return?”

Jo annwereil, “God willing,”
Modem polemnity,

“You are a Christian, Alidallal’’?

Ve?

And what sre yer come to me

OThe country.”

“What de you think of ie"

“Thisa fine country, bat very niekdy.

At thie heaaniled, and avain asked,

"Would you Chyedians ablow ths bo eat

ye
and pee your county?

with due

wi?

e Certainly?

“ Would) you foree up do become Chris
tans?

“By no inenie, we never macilel le witha
mons religeton

OWhatll and doe you ever pray tl?

So melanen 5 Our relyton Commands as
to guay alwayn , bul we pray oon pavaed, nl
nol publie, eseent on Sands

(, abruptly

Oie of dis peop ale what on
Chrahin wart a

Why on Walle, Cintidel ), regained the
fOLeTNOL, .

“Wiera te your jew renvanl? You oueht

Crhety A Eee ps
tee de Ube coudbure. a fispseee, uely, filthy hid. ote Jet ane pee tan hk
wields Vee quent pie tote nies at Hropaead on 'Pleuee gan, deo: ayenae feat; ane

Holes Caper rally those of the eet We have
mel woth aor pre sau pork. ofour jouney,
batonoy at becorne very Comiunon, TG ee ee
Hay, 4 ant
wooly Wace vulture Way hie thoibes Hp pearaire
aoe havbut, ah be teal Gideon te te na

owl peopeed hee ousefab sea ynees,

ten found an lier mmnber

that ital
ape corelab not ta destroy nay of the apes
Ae the white ant elem the countig of rot
yaaa) Nae

Sane «f aninid it Sarsee
the J) ite prs heel an voll eae the

miket wad other frequented: places,

tence Saeed vulbape devour: every

vied ihc find an

haynes
wil ie

pennen doee ibe been e yeoree wy bared ef four

Lage fal) cnn the trend, Waste at maebaatly |
Pe CL aiid clare ab fer ts eae one eld ne Chea dane, feet, dep, and eye
ft de gee abl dead) anal thab aig die aesse Vlas pool te mine by SG
wboat Wee field vlcne yall dee gete te teat oon cbed maddie edyerk gourmet Phey thes
venture te come. ia the hedieceb dives, Syre o Litthe ah ab wath) water man fe
veqhaye in ee Jastoue d In + fone plus fe a tye pages aony Uaeonee Vynes, Nvobebrenye iy fe wth ih

to Adieber aif bayes the ceunhey fresno jue
b fener Ny rilehiges stood the Con pete ob the vie
fae abe Gleeed yy cuperctiticn

Votre conmacee Leet Uhaety Ve darby Varo
vupd shied Had, teitane aot Tid af velo tape

vicnbeass Prenas

chogee , bebe i peal tay
etry squarter ol the Conn. (hos bet
fitecn rlee tn caeeaaderene’, tol is ean

poyndod wih a jails hay wil wel thesstbele
hitely fio Hilleeas tribes
with ebeet ren, otek bec heed wath graced
Oalypu fer the of Mies e ree beceed qrretisel
Wie geet

Phe perce naan ete iele tie

age taf veri ene real

bieticee

(a thority betes , Haneicte al

Hielels unl pardon

fea a CT CO ye nee eed fosveny they
vane pe dpe an vectD bed cvellagee sue babi dua ge
ue ;
Be ang Ne nage bud iegte cable titan nite gy fener tae been dosart nate on ine yn nel ce ge bab beeuene he
ete nee tty dh ay thee de pee) Oa Wet based vet baie i I a ,
y / ' ' j
Me faagho dae very Javpee and ie yal va
Frticne bene teat in hic hues ee, lev ae fale Th A Jrstate rgiiaale re atoll hooth. vel apoud
Plt e  wtpea hens an
1 ‘ bet typ ede ptr batenke bbe bea hee cade ob delle ne asl ober fe aphids etn
he by bt bee te dd ed : ;
‘ to feat eoteten Ep ae ete tab pete Vee TEE
yh A ‘ ae Pb ety beh Ob dba Peet be die
t i fas ee ee Pee ee re 2 .
‘ i ‘ ‘ Babigie Pope Dace aegtivae thf bes "
eyo wpe ta dee Late adn be dete pe penta Nee 1 pt ee
hata “ Byte tb Eber ee Peed Vb Ve aed de -
Pe tg peters rere pet ay Se cantfeer band aad hey Uo cVee terete th Fo Baa thinee oh tbe ; ,; tol
web ele anpttg Dhar dan se Matgie deegtabede EDM ps deretell dee tp reece be Paden Pecenrentn, eect, Detypenuas sae

Mode ote food

never allow any eervants bo he aolesderl for

sedis coplanar ‘
Wel Abbdadfah, thon mit a aaan ef any

3 where | cotton, indigo, and rice might be obtained in
One of these was observed tobe Uhey are seated in rows, and gaudily decked |
They are inspected by buyers -
v supplied with cotton, ail- with as much scrutiny as any cattle in Eng: !
! oxen, fresh butter, aud on. land; the tongue, teeth, eyes, and limbs!
When pigchased, :
ort which one would scarcely expect to all the trappings with which they were
; 7, “adorned are sent back to ornament others 3; ‘The toot soldiers of this country are gen-

and if any defect be found in’ them they can:

avice of Dro Barth, | supply me with everything uecessary for my) Malta to ‘Tripoli, and thence brought aeross ;
j Henow begged me to state whit!
assured him that the! Gontral Africa.
King of Hagland, my master, had liberally |

{

The governor did not reflect; plesioned Felatta, and asked me if 1 liked |

i ne
E people at the upper end of the room, whieh |

Ceganeliage, aed aah copie nid nee ine al

| then refed, aid the Naithe atlerwarid:

Ceotet nie Chit bres gies ae petlert Ryan,
come tines pul Koserebout fe donth tor thi

vintee of bans peovielis

‘

Pfiel thetes eceeoeneed, af trite,

ha fect foie wordenel at, fran the netorendé

valbany of seme af thens
he women of this eomnbey ite net cabictes
with ent natural lesa y : Jin they lave
peeettise beonil bo hsie bites there ehucean:
Por Hine put pence thoy hye hen hin Jalen

oane feaseel, onl " feavels voage vebases te thas othees

fath men and wena culos

feothy wath Uroyvencs of thie Tabsne ees pleat nol
The yeire al tiene fewer prved

within brea

‘

hes Viper nod

Mier Uilood soot sepapstmnniniec, whie Hou: hayel

ly totocmed
Vou

faye ndoneed: the politeness ul

Pienehanane, bot the Mie graee ab banat dot

bcleinel Deis te ceebaity ood

ft

Pe sn of Haein da aedeleccoiiage ie Geeatd when
Ins ba yas vopies Vasaeel “an Naves laroaet,

foes beer td?

Corel nnabine a dew bea enya, 7 Pha ede
faves

yuu ther! on ce vaste nes we it} law

yieti proce the fret af the lage’

A fiddle pretends ty ete
whiede de a tee ela
livseheenad, tt

coneedin teal tes in byeathene ft hen

(

a

Fev fitiese A

Wohrete adie tee Pestongt
Pl tte nich of that Gawi, wh vdotted: line ia

uny quantity that could be desired. They
are raised by the Negroes with little trouble,
for their own use and native trade; and, !
therefore, they could be grown tor foreign |
markets. Some native shirts ave really hand-
some.

erally armed with bows and arrows; the
cavalry with swords, shields, and spears, |
Captain Clapperton mentions itas a singular ;
fact that these men were equipped with the
identical swords which ence belonged to the

rthe desert to be sold to the Neeroes of
Such are the changes of
human things,

Going Wastward toward Kooka we may |
wither pass through Gummel and other cor: |
siderable towns, along Dr, Barth’s route; or
we may yo more to the South, by Murmur
ant Katagoom with Captain Clapperton.
Let us adopt the latter, as it leads us to the
last earthly resting-place of the gallant
“traveller’s companion, Dr, Or dney., A lit-
He on this side of Kano, w' it the captain
was resting undor the shale a trea, being
oppressed with ague, he was costed, “with

infinite arelness and grace. be

Melatta girl, going to myrket ts a
Unoshire amrgredut! “Sho s vol her
own nation sand, after muc

talk, | pressed her, in jox company

me on any journey ; while © vacied pry
solicitations with reogaish glee co: referring
rae to her father and nother, \ tlon’l knew
how if happened, bat hor presence seemed to
dispel the efleets of the ague,”’ The (ravel-
ler addy that the auking of sh butter as
ours is confined, in’ Afrien, to the Felattas:
nnd that at is both clean and exeallent,

The people of this country are very eager
for elisa, and pester every lonrned stranger
toawrite for them some prayer which will
preserve thom from evil. Captain Clapper:
lon sayy, thal ina town an the other side ol
Kane, ho was mach troubled with importini:
ties for ostteh valies, His washoryonan
postively insisted upon being pail with u
charm, whieh would lave the efleet ot
causing people to bay earthonware from hor;
aadnoe rensonings would persuade her to the
contrary, ormake her beheve that it was ho
youl Titman power fo yrant sueh a spell.
Whon people are ne eatporal Head, ne wonder
that they are enaly dupa, °

Shoo of the povernor's wives visited: the
Fraveller, and after examining hie akan with
meh onttention, observed, with coal toofis
of conypaiion, thiet ito wines a thar
pitier he wan Dhaek, for then he
would have been poodtooktag £ Tlecadad
occa! them, a baxon beset fitteen, iste
would baye hin foe on huabond, provided ho
vould obtain the pevernor'n vonsent, She
innnedintely hepa to whimper, wed on beip
seed to genie the venom, cade, Chat shoal
not know what he cout do vith bis white
fet “Pho dation were attended ly wale
wenn nel twee: younys nhaves, anel white with

nol

Jim were very ery,

Those worn only pole the nentiment
Which aa enter tine iy nied af the Noproes,
nod me poerally (hes Novyetanscont of diterion Ati
cy nerth al the Byuator, hey really de
Hhiok noawhite aban ta be ndefert toes
nelait Chet dante it had a eubaverous ape |
thoy prefer the dark or eoppen
vobrrend, Ail perhaps they tie net Tar
wrong ite tavieys thin profarenes, Wowe een
andor haw soni a Mureponn bin lanes all it:
heady a tropical Atma, aid bovenies ofa
load natlow hive, without Teli ane OA pes |
whale the dark aban nbinos atl pletion with
Vhs dha tese an intuat tion

peieniies ’

tho fat undertonth
thei:

Woonew aiive at Minnie, aomindl owe,
nbont wcley’n journey fone Watapoom Dy
Oasbaay, whee wan varited i the wvpuulition
wilh Majer Ponte mel Captain Clapp ton,
was dieconpunny wilh Ces tatters at thier Ginn ot
hia tating a vietho tothe Afro elinate
Ho tid becces cerevedd cel yee adil ving: woh,
when be wine aticebod with agiio in the Hhealin
commtiy Pin then fete that it wie all ave

a pretty | some Coora nuts, and wo presented the arti-

}

weed cceee cone tee Deeb eee ‘ anor “ awe , !

5 syn el wee CUVOTICE, piece OL W tite
i

| pevaannpss te Meeea, wan an intellipout with, |

lonely and friendless amidst the wilds of Af. seen that he realty does perform private de

. : : . nye :
view.” Honor to the memory of these brave votions, they entertain a different opinion ¢f
men! Wemrust not let them pass without a him. We know this by experienee. When
notice. : we have shown them our “heok’ in the

Let us now enter Katagoom, which lies in! shape of an Arabie Bible. they have leoked at
12° 17/117? north latitude and 11° east! jr iith veneration, and have heard us read out
longitude. The town is of a square shape.” efit, and explain some passages. often exclaim:
with gate in each side, defended by place ing, ‘Wonderful!’ Sheree?s and learned Mos-
forms. It has a double wail, each twenty Jems (net Menrs) have eenversed with us
feet high, and three ditehes, each fifteen feet about religion. and have eladly reeeived 2
deep and twenty feet wide. ‘The hest houses ,
are of the ‘Turkish form already deseribed, |
some of them haying two stories.
habitants are estimated at from

Psalter, er other pertion of the Seriprures in
Arbic. Burt when a man makes ne protes-

The in- | sion of religion, cither beesuse he has nene.
sever to or beeause he conceals it from metives of

eight thousand. The governor's residence poltey, Africans of all kinds regard him as
ovenpies a large enclosure in the centre of an infidel. Boldness and eonsisteney in

the city, Let us suppose onrselves to have one’s faith is honored beth by pagans and
been of Clapperto and) Quiiney’s party / Moslems. sO

when they were introduced to him, and the | Ie was at a dilapidared town called
following would be our description of the ine, Neuratawa, a little nerth of the route which
terview. * ave aire pursuing towards the capital ef Bor
He was sitting without any coremeny or! un, that Mr, Richardson died. He was as:
armed men, on a low bank of earth covered © sociated with De, Barth and Ma. Overwes,
with a rude canopy. Only three old men) in their researches through these parts of AL
were in his company. Ue shook hands and! viea, and was acdvely pursuing the objects of
desiged us to sit by his side, The modesty | the expedition of which he tad ge mmneipal
of etiquette indueed us not to accept. this charge, when he sank under the effeets. at’:

high honor, but to sit on the floor before him | the climate | He was an energene man, and |
had made the friendship of some of the na:

along with his counsellors. He. offered us|

Vee seehetal 1 : [tive princes, — He separated trom his com |
a tontray, ten yards of red Silke an nats i though Atl RALS A AC her \y miele, USNS
i was pressing “wands to the capital, wher

inen cloth with gold stripes, a pound of cine | he hoped to rest and reernit a Hele, Ue

: reached this obscure place one evening, quite

exhausted, and breathed his last, all alone.

early neat morning, His grave was made

hy his servants, under a widespreading tree

in the Vienity, where it was visited by his

namon, and tho same quantity of cloves. He
was very much pleased with the articles,
especially with the tray, when tls use was
explained to him. Te asked if we wanted
slaves or anything else; for all that ho had, :
or could procure, was atour disposal. When compamon a few days attorwianls, .
answered in tho negative, he again inquired, | + Your hardiltecd would new be trivd in
What, then, do yeu want?" When in passing through dismal swamps, beside large
formed that we only desired his: triend: hip, lakes, and through ariel Waters, exposed to
with permission to collect the flowers and many Vivissitudes oft the a ea sud two
Hants of his conutry, and to see ibs rivers. daneers font roving bandits, Yer hers is a
, beanifal tree, ealled the heoka. Ut is very
“Wonderfal£ You do net want slivess Gill and ereet, and is sometines: Oventy five
you do net want horses; yeu do not want feet in cirommiference, Tho III and
Money bat yer wish only to see the work Uranches taper el fo a pont the woed ts
You must note the Sultan Bello, who is a ports aml sponsy y the bark is coppercel:
learned anal pious many and will bo phat fo ored, set, and coveted with a gummy extuds-
see men whe have seen se much. Vousshall dieu. Tt: leaves ave small, peowite in clus.
have all, and seo al ¢hat icin nay provittees, tees from twigs: ils flowers am lirge and
aid Jim suse ny master will erant every white, semethiny the the santen tty. Vhe
thine you wish” fiuitis larger than’ dhe coeos nas having a
He then eame ilown trom his seat, sat hy hard shell, CONLUNTE, SONG perrdery rantler
our ade, and shook hands with uso whielois and sewds sits dark erven changin to brown
here a sien of great respect (rom one grandee as it riper “The tree, whether barv ot tts
, leaves, in Mower, er ia fll bearagy, leis a

After this, dhe governor paid: the travel singalaely protesqate, nathed appearanen , and
loin several friendly visite, amd owas visited with tds frat dang lines foo the Touts hho
by theme in win, Tle desived fa seo atl eadern purses, mieho te the imagination et
hnow the ase of their astronomical and other sone Paster stor teller, well cubellist an
instonmenty amt had Chem expliined to he. onchantod ganten of the Gontus of Lamp
endior jee, and fo te ehiet people, Le The dried lowves, beim elatinens, an used
showed them: his palace, whieh wae very by the uitives it making SANE, aud ne
rapeetable building, vik ontrodiieed thew te eaten tated, wrth ited eat They aie alse
Jas favorite wile, a golly amd pec looking used to fatten vattle Tho meaty part ot the
Neston Ho heeread a small supply af Baw that is pleweint, aiat put un wader agtkes 8
lish powder, whieh te ssw
thon attended the vaplham, to see lin Gre at
vtarpel TE teed avive, and: happened ta) guonjee, wtih resembles a stunted wah, i
hit. the ae both times, at a distance at say Shana toeattital lark wd thower, net uulike a
Lyon neventy vandy when he called out, dale. whieh re ned de give ated tinge to (he
tee Vot. omouth and teeth, aud fo season seme hinds
af tinal

The Sualear of Bout was dosertbed) ty
Major Donkam ceca meta parppet, parseced
of ne nithority, a kind et Gute prisoner
loader at Bini, whieh we pres thiamah

woxelainted :

to nnother,

voolins aul hover vw

inoacbos, and a
Another tree, peeutiay to dis ngten, inthe

. .
“the Lord precerve nie Chany tlevals
ta dehon of her ap yebation, he thiow ever |
ney cdiedelers wath) las own habs a very |
‘ ’

linwlsaine dale Whe eadi had amide the yl |

and aeqiantod with) Mabie literate!

She Miiwuta believe anemones, aswell an can ain way (oe dhe val capital, when che
Voamyant, uy tenia te oye dc oabesk tae. Brora walled fawn. een
; i Cammy comme Gar thoes urhabitants, tat
without any splondor Vn onifenvwew with
whieh war alee a pall, withont breakaim: a0 the severe bs ilies alesvrited by Major
Vhs was Denhane.

ather ponple
coive (he Qoora ants presented by the po
orto a unter, averted a pot of honey

(heels tho honey ware nyoetlonl ; ,; na
in : itt i . sta aye . hay
connblonad amend propittians virenttiidaties My! Wo yrete Gist conbitetedd Ge dhe an ol che
‘ : ‘ + + ‘ . . . . het t
hia Mycolloney, whe ordre come pour pwe Sultan's tad evtifice, whens afin ot ay vant
ple to tee eatlod sata belo age the Loney Ne were an aiubled Ge tecone wr; wn ane. a
Hitter van om, | sero clambertain, halited an eught or ton
wank i tobi on daria ef datlinend colors. the outside
vie at Gite astro Gatled: salle. of Cho ananatie
went Poteet Savstan Ur hes hamd be eavrted: an
nh i ’
i i sa ell) Tita Ajow'a baton, and
very thingy de tagged ABtea AN orat ae aineneat Ol, dike wv temin " qjen'a } so
jy ‘n | amy | y tay ss, UNE Tt
bandisoot wan cri ht Watageeni, meaty oon hun Nwrad tw Inve uo tm “ wees nee
iy Hwee foot envon tneboa, (vine ee en te aban any thine of the Rint we tan sven bobirty
Winn owas, hewevor, but al titling one

rvsentiere coated Elen clos A
Coll slower ote Chote here, and nitdet a "
donb ot woentieting coun tnae an ond ot Che

i

will Hann OH ce tapant foe eunelinet tlie
pyiethon Co aaneoenalel tovendiation, bet (hat
wbreond Lnier allo Tor ceseascenns
patliond, twee, aor aan be
CLuvveern ence cf! WC autangrconannn, otal dey qevenseta dias fart

prepa
Voor aedadar bee reases tbo

promt ambos Mba men and wenn,

Hager fine vesenbedieel  rutnel Tas prove eliveetionya |

Hu!

tho dap wf dhe Cail Hwan at oa Hight pray | neat
Fyutor wlth Dhak Cdl aed anand head, eevee | fa thse we were shunt nneat te behold at a
Vor at noha! qintionve oe the following cig w
Li Sultan tery atten, sent wont (hat ty sun
Fyja eho ned mening, he weld revere te
Lie tfas evant, acitesd plondithl if not let

wulaven with toga: linia
nice banat beovnny dleetitetive, mid we shouts
Hrather Chey weneeanight hy aative: Chan by |
L asneneieal yaa

Hatin somohiag Pheri, we ai
| tbvvonnnigh Ulee Ploadis oonente ye powell fe ho

at eer enh, rapitnf wan Vovsrnngg lit ete, cotta at
‘ | .
Proventy dicho, enol at wtieh would have

tanism ; so that they are called
: sur | infidels by their ncighhors, and ere treated boiled, and stewed.
\ } was highly criminal, effect the death of » ag outlaws, whom any one may kill or en--
publicly going | some favored rival.”?

The Mahometans accuse the Bedees of
having no religion, which appears to be true

for, when they kill any beast for food, they
hold it up to heaven, in acknowledement of

of mutton and poultry, and were baked,

| Space in front of tke royal
ve were kept at a considerable

Tt forms a_ distance, while his people approeched tw with-
_ kind of neutral territory, separating two pow- in about a hundred yards, and pessed by him
; erful kingdoms from each other, and doubt-

on horseback ; then, dismounting, and pres

less preventing many wars between people trating themselves before him, they wok their
The Bedees are places on the ground in front, but with their
| till they much more rude and simple than their neigh-
| reached Murmur, Where they were obliged to! bors, who have received many arts of civil.
Next morning he drank a cup of} zation from the Moors, They are said to be
| very fond of dog-flesh, and they fatten these

Lacks to the royal person, which is the casom
of the country. He was seated in a ser: of
cage of cane or wood, near the door of his
garden, on a seat which, at the distance, ap
peared to be covered with silk or satin; and
Icoked through the railing upon the assembly
before him, who formed a sort of semicircle,
extending from his seat to nearly where we
were waiting. Nothing ould be mere atsurd
and grotesyue than some, nav all, of the f-
_ures who formed this ecurt. ~
Large bedies and large heads are indis-
pensable for persons who serve the court of
Bornu ; and these who unfortunately possess
‘not the former by nature. or on whem lasd-
ness will not be forced by cramming. make
up the dedcieney of real procuberance Ey an
immense wadding, which. as they sit on the
horse. gives the belly the curioas appearance
of hanging over the pummel ef the saddle.
The eight, ten, or twelve shirts of diferent

ough
White, so as to deform it as much as possible;
and those turbans whieh seemed to hare teen
twost studiously arranged. bad the effeet ef
making ihe head appear ecmpletely en ove
: sides this, their persons are bung
a charms. enclosed in
leather parcels strung togetber :

also, h

Nh
&

the herse,
mulets fastened round Bis reek. on

paris ef head. and about the eddie. A
Urele to our left and nearly in fron: of the
Sultan. was an extempere devlaimer. skeut-

TT

ilustrious poul

ere. m. was cne whe

bere a long weeden frumfrum,. on which be

ever and anen blew a blast. loud and unmc-
sical,

Such, it appears, was the state ceremony
adepied by former negro Kings, and whick

the cwishes the Sultan tw econdnee. in
onder to anise hint and his courtiers, and to

please the people, that the power way oon
tinue in his ewn hand. An aly black euuuch
called for the presents, which were can
ried unopened to the royal presence. But the
visitors could only get a tine glimpse of the
Sultan, through the latticswork ef bis ravi
ion ar cage ; which sutticed, however, to show
that tis turban was lanver than that of any
of his subj? and tbat his face. trom dhe
nese dow . ms campletely coven.

Anger. ancient royal resiliency, is 4
dred thousand por Chan Birai, and besa very
as being here su cheap that west of the men
have a shirt aud parr of mowers Some
begenrs endeavored ty atinice the pity of
charitable porsens, by holding the remuauts
of (rowsers in one hand, and Ttiog up theic
shirt with the other, crying ont, at x Veta
voice, “Bat breeches, there are mene But
boweches, there are rene 7 The only pes.
sons artiad near the Sultan's persua, were
some hundovds of negrees tn blie bes. whe
wor ouside the evurceintio.  Eseh of these
carried an immense club with x large awd. s
bow and arrows sling over his back. and a
short aay When a chiet is riding. s
foorman rans behind, cartying fear spear’.
There are many stiriugers ty Angerna, pute
cipally Gaders fronr ditforene cours,

La ae evatiarse.}

= A ’ .
Stray Leaves,
~ oN

Yur Bars Dy Tallin lis Journal af
Voalth, speaking of the nuportanee ef ue
habiing houses av their stuacQine and sia:
tion favatable Gv healed, refers as Glows
the Bible :

Phere Is mere sound, practical hygiene,
on the sebieer of healthy homses. te the L4th
chapter a Levitin, fren veise thady four
chan in all cho skulls af all dhe health evur
Inisatetters and commen evnneils ef ah che
ites of Chastendom May iis hac we ae
netread eur Biblo men, cae start book
whieh contains the leading principles ob what
is indisputably syed, and weal sud tue,
me all thar wally pertains to hima happiness;
and whats py iis that the Sunday mens
paper, and the Crashy aweekly, and che en
Cetng ster beh, Gr ehildhead: snd heey
agy, On subjeets pertaining, tv the walt atte
yaety poaching, and intilel pret tow
divs, wilt (heir nee Gangled ert: es for
human amehoration, and thety theaies 64
ctovating Cre unasses 2 pT TC Es, We sty, that
all they Chines so attaet affertin The
Ribly, che best ot all, the wisesé ine all its
theories, amd meal tis pranens mate, hes ly
wate aosealed: boak fu dhe aay . and a,
other volume en the ani er atte abla
woult be opened sonore then i

As Torre Lars The en pila at
sendy vesttecis wet wordy bettas as vathan
Ge What atte is that your netghtor Nes
wae xplenbidl Comb! Sleep yen wide dine
vonee Look bolind son ehivagh: dhe traek
af dame) OA vast desert bes open in rete
spools weaned will) years and suri, they
ak thon che walks of aman Vou ast
loave theme wher choy (> stab va aie to
awn btale dirthes, and your with Gent eter
west Whatorer yer tage tere fe ogeatay
boty eon (he evade aint eho grave, every ae.
menk is Ing with ovvrts, whith eae net i
aiden itt bat binstang Bavibly vara ey
volving: ait waknew rn wse, dy over this orb
With) diverted tntlienes

Tove Tan waite slippers at list, and
Iie Creal be nbetoan | Phe dtays vest
ly chaning, ene attor anothoe ¢ (hey ervop at

Soon after daylight, we were summoned to
Their country is full of dense forests attend the Sultan of Borna. He received
3, Which inake it difficult for an os in en open
; enemy to penetrate, though it is being en- residence.

ooh marin ane
thoy aunt ba ab. Chew
gain that beter te te,
in i whale ht at days
itadety stat Nar has

feqitod dey fread, aah obusee cane grneg ron
dager, ele whines wlh the way, cayenne, OMe
COs! obser re! pery re

lined Wilts dope por sine wid tomdtorateap. atthe window dhete
polite Phe Sualtan bined sent (ey tbe gratetlal gothee Tpse as
wives Chieby oattal fia anethor Chieti sail ae annie or aveed Ge dhe
‘har the Ehatoh whouwkt vet oat the the Hor Sad, betine we kaon
Tyga, aatava on Ger ava headed wath tives tne: [renee at the
fowle te one diner The aieata eaunisted | dakar de fee te ewe

i i ened tae

wii, ean tint vasoncerel banis tyra tinal Va pantatiny i Pawgeasge thar dwe Wonvstonie al ee aanl "

, ivheses ah COTS Caer Se
wind TY RL salanidtlon rade popene ag Want Yay he [arclovon TL th va

1 Ved looky eortvdy ett ot topon
ali : . steep avennebe apanned Edenh, cunned cnet tangy bosetyy
Hoes canes ierbonesee sol Clbee we labtan ebennnte tint thoy ave voally an

: i on To | \ alate |
vb avenge: donagedrotets TE of Vile Wes wos | ebsains ean Hons ta teate | vad, Won dea be
yvonne poeetiostiban ly Hansel tue Cavan annenttonan y Paton Chante vue Revernieny ial Liha tenet

ob the (oneta
aml were Fvenguonitly Knipe Canate ter bantad yas vlhal Choy Tarver enervere contaria ond Ub

may Syradl! may hie ad!
Vet three deve Dectel dee ren aadby fame bie

uit CERT TC) Me

le levpe
takes ole hi [Neserebeas, booth poset dees have thes

V faethe ach feet Aye, ART Wirvo lay de

wtbe ceie Eine

1
‘
1

oo aR

The wise King of Israel says There is a

time for every purpose under heaven 2° sud
noi, in our opinion, is the time to cffeet the
parpose for which the Constitution was
framed. and secure the Liessings of liberty to
posterity. by redfirming, without reservation,
the inalienable rights of man.

moment

ew is the auspic to drive
‘ of Liberiv those who trafie

end make merchandise of

Hern,

away. with the
and

SSS ang

immoral

sophisti.
z 1 the nadional juds-
Meni, and countenance the idea of property
To a word. neice is the time two do
justice. and leave the results whh Ged; Lat.
enera] thing, our

ost powent, crave and
ID

“don’t sez it.’ Solemn as owls

and blind

3, they sit, and will forever sit. unless
5 P|

1.
ease

: ; a :
despised negro, in the name of God and Lib-
isrieht ; and God

erty, has long demanded his night ; and God,
in answer to his prayer. now grants the har-
vest of his oppressers systematized wrong,
hy the infliction of that most appalling
cburee, civil war, WHb yeu not aor re-

| He js the bitter ingredient in

him?
the cup which even-handed justice e maen Is
te the Eps ef a nation recreamt to its vews
and faithless te its trust as standard-bearer
in the advance of civil and religious freedom.
Let it drink! and in the bitter draught realize
the enormity of its crime. and the detestation
wih which the cflended majesty of Heaven

regards its impious offence. L.

«woe e

The Kentucky Legislature, by a
Woanimous vete in the Senate. and a vote of
69 w 11 inthe Honse. thank the President of
the United States for his modification of Gen.
Fremont’s Proclamation and Secretary Cam-

eron’s Report. and very modestly request
him to dismiss the Secretary of War from
the Cabinet.

Whilst they are in hot pursuit of one See-
retary. “out West,” an attempt to. start up
wame from the Cabinet is being made here
at the East. Indications of its existence,
are certain remarks. rumored to have been ut-
tered by Mr. Seward, in a conversation with
ithe Duke of Newcastle, during the late visit
af the Prince of Wales to this country, to
the effect that should he (Seward) become
President, or Secretary of State, he would Le
chliged to insult England. As ridiculously

overrules their stupidity, and

oma their stools, meditating on

ans of accomplishing
g

is Ly intro

into Celine:

itionion Lenrcen Cree
1
i

stone

Cinjels arto witness. Why!

wy MW 17 . ats . 1 Hi
y BY 99 Gur statesmen bale at di

Deause thelr eyes make fuols

antipathy w the accident of color, ty

Elerevera nel ¢ a Vilivaty .
aitregara their inont wilemn olligaticy, and
remnple down th jae, *
Wenpe duwn ie dearest right” “%, an
t 5 4 . “a .
“On, vou herd heart, vou cry
Kerevan wa lat Pouspes,

Cot

» Rome,

ts
« Beek oor pereyee

wg which vou
: Jong oppression und
wins e fg payne! % OPE
WSK bak WA, 12 INOe
ath the

‘a ab

5 and that decpdown
clade off extine

of

fhe ashes withered
2 Aes for Nherty, that
' , oy ; it M4

mene bre pied by the Alinighty’s hind
Woregian of every human beast?

are a
eyete toe retavion atch YON OWE files, snd
Heres Oe

yu, ve remarrably ehenrighted patriot,

the payment of your deut’

AAs Usude Gun, and dike a

: . ' .
he aLueruten Wy etay the process of justice,

en Galen for iniquity the
a a?

cre apectartes Furniced ty hin hy the

t ,
Wa Deca genl, sti pol We hire HOPG wd
’

we Viihane, bys kind of isp han,
apt Wile Glilnaiad | ee plinis, tbls

Snetinet wien VMhon eran ; te:

. ' .
Hipp oun peat, Necaagor ta just ennelusiane

ek Grape: She rharp, aid egen al Viple

Yau fia yun} and if neges

te
D

hentoy Ean wen aid lease ff hicloy

yy GeseciG, std watina posing Mei pre
pena tne Gave troth and “the sitnpile:
Ratan Beal the present cantest would be
nyeenily tight te ighteous conelusion,

Yoday, Marthe pregudion abandis between
tet, Liar y tat ated reali 5 ub thin iastant,
ans spares Vehween Nhe Vodeanl forces und
valny Say nes the: fattring wuelion ty
yan neute test bbe Juve for the Eaton that
miigal : pour wrath of nde s qour pro
HIDE, Hh be yum drew and wrens be the
tate ine) that it the weubus that wey
Mf, in

Wisi ot see Union, you pike te the people

yrs dave aud poalyaee your effort

bas yrincipter yl undedie Wun in

flava wi the Camstitution, you ehiald remind
then of the wlijade i was titeniled ta pre

Se tink you they woul be dees aaleoun

Wes

in defer 6 OF the one, ain their lave for Ue |

saner tps, fede wad blind; fer whether ie
yas, the gilt, on ties udtun Cand enetitet hy
wis dtorined Wal,

He: yh Surther, we

aang baasg ander durese Sian coe olf
Sigaicen, nnd pol weird eapntyoralinns,
Via i nel be well for Vreedean ta follow
her erompl: Wall you, Merion Union

ie, nie Seaye AP pear meotlings, pour plat

tale wind the Conditation ond the Union, .
yuus TOLLE A Weviveths Minanespalion an wt

ple aller as begin te be ba carne Cun
yin Wa ANY hanenth the Constitution, ond
war where We nin, 4 pursue fMerty fron
thie eargen of derpdian, ond ta plice she
rights, ah ee aye an anole bana’? Me
Vit

UH yon, Sine, Mat an thin vay Mya: in
WS lash, Hut. of Miuyary we WMisedeom de
WA than Gulu We camel MW undir thin
wupdcnining Mdillon wad Crien 5 i in!
chiminus Ahan de Wat one alernalive, upd:

yer sihenty on completa Aeopedion ‘4 hal

tne Auer seneee, and force them, from 4a)

ae

absurd on the face of it, as is the idea of any-
| thing of the kind ever having been uttered
j snd received in sober seriousness, if in any

iway whatever, the papers begin to ring

toe | changes on it.

Influenced by this, and various reasons re-
lating to his conduct, temper, and habits, the
Boston Traveller says i—

We certainly feel that in the present cri-
isjs, the Department of Stute should be in
‘other hands, and that Mr. Seward can do no
“Letter service than by resign
he does not, we hope the President will have

the goo] sense to take Uie responsibility of

waking the chanae.

We consider the country disgraced by the
low tone of morality and statesinanship mani-
fested by Mr. Seward in hisadsmitted conver.
sation with the Duke of Newcastle, if he is
longer continued in office.”

¢ woe + -
Warrisa as Usvan—lt cleasty is a part
of the policy, or want of policy, of chose who
dircet and amanayge our quilitary affairs, to
initiate ‘uneasy fits’? of action and yest, and
egvern the forees uecordingly. This secms
to be the rule, to which there issenrcely any,
if,indecd, a single exception. We see it
clearly exemplified at Matteras; again at

Port Rovel ; and now in the vicinity of Pen-

sneha. Dy intelligence from Fort Pickens it
appears that Gen. Brown will not attempt a
rebombardment of Penracola until he lias re-
-ecived a large Jand force, Tia the meanwhile
i the ermeny Ty aren gthening his position, and
the command under Bragg has been largely
reinforced,
This starting off expeditions with in-

Laufficient, power to do more than strike an
som

weeny

‘Ininintive Wow, and? then rest
months, until the enemy has ree

‘the shock, and ie in better esuetion than at
; the onset to withstand an attack, looks to ux,
, but

Prior to the eailiow of an

not only ay an unwise nonce

‘ bagsrdou, Course,
. expedition, Gxtitinie caution is exercised hy
Government to prevent the peeret of its des
tinstion bein divelyed, and thereby the obs
ject of the soverent frustrated 5 and ye the
whole purpoce Ts exposed to the eneny, by
the fiat step Leing taken, when we are, or
apprehend we may Le, too feeble to advance
the second, Th ono seein quite evident
Hint jisd our forces, Mammediately after por
tering heuselye: of Port Royal, punted
Garvaid, Charleton and Sayinunal might
haves heen cusily wud cheaply taken; where

av, by a delay, and io long adelay, they can

,
cenreedy be exptured villiow! much expendi

use of Hine, money, aid what be far more to
ie deplored, life. ‘The Washinvton earre

epandent Of the Philadelphia DPrers writes,
a peatteanan whe resided an South Carolia,
the port TA months, and Jax juet reached
i Baltimore aya, 1 one topes hid ned yaneed
i ietn ort Royal, Chanestan and Pavinnnh
| hud fallen wmithouta blo, Wot thot wow the
1,000 or “0,000 nobdiens,

i

yu hiteye senne

Mase ast Cannes This precious con

ple, tagettea aaith then Heeretinien, were, on
Wednesday, ties Sek amet) taseueferred fret
Port Warten ty the Hritich gunboat Kaaalde,
abieh wel eal fram Provineeloven for Moy

land, at Goa’elode 0 ME of the rine diy.

,
Vhe eurender of these teattane oecumotis
“yuck Aiippomtinent god comment ia rebel
‘dot, asd wien confidently heaped and believed
‘tol wo phould vefuee (he detmunudes of [May
tau, wd in consequenes become invalved
Finn wor, whieh would materiatly udyanee

Hie daseyaibene cane of pees &

{ f(wewm eo

P f4aeaiie Heeeiss as Mineo. Gen,
Poenise, de eon of 10 Bavoniets, din
L persed worehel force of BOO, aster Cod Jur
reey, ah Mount Mien, Huene county, Me,
weunding weed lalla POO, taba hie pains
para, ane) coplaring Wo berwen, POG pes, cle,
Py ith io Unborn dots of billed and EE yon
cA The cucay's Uvidge laening progenies
Hee wee ohlb wetivedy iaedalpedd 4
tare

A valaed gearyantkal Cal dackeon,
Cahn yi in comand of ane of the papi
wicnte ab Dreinesyilla, jae she recat fylt
there,» heving ja chovge the Catvsal a harae,
ated about Me outaliete, and enpbiateet aad
Iaepll in swe rebate ila clan, Meus,
Howled, wos wet coppul, ane Aide pean,
| ada duped, wora wel lauded 5 Jvulauwdly
and hablby feryerh Died dai Vinaprdens lt fosssiedu-
Lie tadeing pies al tien, wel they, Tile

Cag Hott cea, ne )ielyel be eon daven

§

¢ his office. If

Wan’s Progress. —On tho 3d inst., a re-
connoissanee in foree was made in the diree-
tion of Big Bethel ; six miles from that place,
the encemy’s pickets were driven in, and on
entering: the town, it} was found to be desert:
ed. Te had been oceupied, from appearances,
by 5000 or 4000 men.
purty returned without leaving a guard |

The reconnoiteriny

there,

On the 4th inst... near Haneoek, Mad.,
GOOO rebels attacked the 5th Connceticut
Reginent, occupied in protecting the railroad.
After a slight skirmish, the Unionists were
compelled to retire, and await reinforeements.
1n the meanwhile, the enemy destroyed the
telegraph lines and railroad, thus interrupt.
ing communication with Cumberland. Sub-
sequently, Gen. Lander was sent to the res-
cue, and still later, other troops were des-
patched, and more were getting in readiness.
The rebels under Gen. Jackson appeared
opposite Hancock, and attempted to enforce
a threat to shell out our troops. They  re-
tired, however, on the night of the 6th, hav-
ing accomplished little by the shelling; the
force consisted of 10 regiments, furnished
with a large baggage and supply train, and
10 days’ cooked rations.

On the {th inst., the Unionists, about 700
in number, sent out by Gen. Milory, at-
tacked the rebels about 800 strong, at Hun-
tersville, Va., drove them away without
losing a man, and captured $80,000 worth
of military stores and clothing, which were
destroyed. The rebel loss amounted to 80
killed and wounded.

On the Ist inst., Commodore Dupont
landed 3500 troops near the Port Royal fer-
ry, and in an engagement, was repulsed by
the enemy. On the following day, in a sec-
ond engagement, the Unionists were success-
ful, and the South Carolinians under Gen.
Gregy were driven back with heavy loss.

The steamer Vanderbilt, at New York
fron Port Royal, on the 8d inst., (with
3679 bales of cotton,) brings intelligence
that Gen. Stevens advanced on the main land
the Ist inst., and captured the rebel batteries,
after a short resistance; he then advanced to
within six miles of the Charleston Ruilroad.
Aimong our wounded (eight in manber) is
Major Watson of the 8th Michigan, mortally.
The rebel fortifications are seid to be very
extensive, and defended by 11.000 or 12,-
G00 men, under Gen. Pope. Gen Stevens
maintains possession of his ground, and is
awatling reiaforcements from the North !

Three divisions of the Potumae troops have
heen ordered to Aunapolis, for purposes
known only to the Departiacut, and—proba-
bly the enemy.

from Leavenworth, Mansas, under date of
the dth ingt., comes intelligence of a battle
in the Cherokee country, between the Union-
ist Indians, and the rebel ‘Texans and half
breeds, resulting in the death of the Texan
Gen, Cooper, and Mefntosh, the leader of
the half-breeds.

From Missouri and Kentucky, we have
nothing of special moment.

The Mississippi flect is stl being val in

tel creeh chert tongy Whe Rathore Division Na

remains quiescent, iff that be possible, pent
upin the Constitution, which, it is now suid,
will not leave port, until farther orders are
received from Washington,

Gen, dim Lane is mualday all haste to pet
hix foree in readinesa for the proposed dem-
United

States Senator, he has strongly remonstrated

ondyation sn Texas, fie his reat) as
weainal whit ceemed tebe the present mili-
ty policy, nud coaphationlly disapproved of
the louver continuance of the dovothing
cour, awaiting the educating of the soldiery
in ther duties, Phe helieves aetive service
inthe fieblf will constitute the best rehael of
inetroction, and, at the aume Cie, aest eth
ciently and promptly ndyvaneo the host ite.
reds oof the country; thereby ensuring 9
wnore peed youd ratisfactary formination: of
weeonteat, which, wi oak present amaniaged, 0
rapidly coumning the vitahs of the Union,

t
4

teens
Naw Mextea. We obreryve that nome of
Gur eachunpes ace bestowing commendation
on Gay. Conelly, for the Rubpproreel Holle
stand by dita taken agained Che elive code af
New Meateo, nied for his exertions loo enuse
the Lepialatire to repent it. ‘They probably
age nok aware ef the faet that Conelly wan
the puime concertor of the dnehiel, wd Chat
ita, ina peat nenaice, through bin ala
nee, that the Meade aniteantss liwe were enneted,
Phe him apparently inet with) a reanrhibde
nid very audden change of opinion rolative
fa the mubject > whieh, hewever, neeunt net a
matter of worderuent to thors faanilior with
hus former career, coupled with tho eden
atines that hin appointment wr Cayerner is
yel nocoufiimed by thos Honate, ark an we
dee pangs Lo pres, wo tive reevived an ity
Negentinys latter from Pistia be pedidive te the
political condition of Now Meaica, which we
to Furiioh ony rondetn trond

will endea yer

weeks 4

twee
Conmeaander Maury, ina long, atte
whiresccd to Meas Aduisal Mhart Eitauy,
and puldichid tn tes Landline Athenienin af
Maes Obed aad | eDbccerttecsens what ho in plese lo
couvdles thes panels al the CM erst Ll 0
Wed Mae ehapees of eeseeasees Wy (Veiee wes Eeeaneaa
Hk Uthe oath prescnta tha remnrhalele
ppeetacle af un wy hindi ia its vietabes thie
fret nen nil beet talents ie the eomntiy i
wharsie “Pdacala’s ign ae, for ths inant
part mere hivalings, wid Chale anion in bead
Ha ane abrengthoned hy ne niel bape ane
neved by no nnel Peas aa Ces whisk in
wyere the fare; te nubile pnd cone Wwlien
bs whips an inapenibility.” Maury ove
dually bad a seul cine qutine of die civ gud
Hier situations far he meya, OE Mbt with a
price pon ney fenel, iad ow lille aeons avy
neck 5

Sprcmmes of THE MANNER OF GETTING UP
Truranspnic axp NEWSPAPORIAL SENSATION
Ivems.—Under the head of the Latest In-
telligenco by ‘Telegraph, is conspicuously
displayed, in large letters, usually in’ capi
tals, something like the following—viz :
“Discovery of the Source of Rebel Informa-
After a
diligent search through a crowded column of
the news items, the anxious seeker finds the
following astounding particulars, which throw
a flood of darkness upon the whole matter :

tien af our Army Afovements.”

“It is said that circumstances have traus-
pired, within the past few days, leading to
the belief that it will not be difficult to des-
ignate with certainty the source whence the
rebels have, within the last two months, de-
rived most valuable information, which it is
known the Government took every means to
conceal.”

A second detachment of troops, be-
longing to Gen. Butler’s Division, embarked
on board the steamship Constitution, at Bos-
ton, on Thursday last; it is composed of two
regiments of Infantry, and a squadron of
Cavalry—viz: 12th Maine Regiment, Col.
Shepley, the Bay State Regiment, Col.
French, Captain Read’s Mounted Rangers,
and the Artillery Company from Maine. The
ship has hauled out in the stream, and it is
yet uncertain when she will take her depart-
ure. General Butler will remain until the
Third Division is ready to leave ; after which,
we trust in due time, to hear a good report
of their doings.

-—— It has been 2 matter of some won-
derment, why Gen. Viele abandoned his pro-
jected expedition. Recent advices from
Port Royal furnish as a reason an unfortu-
nate disagreement between Gen. Sherman
and Commodore Dupont.

The double-headed system, it would seem,
works no better in the military, than in the
educational ranks. Considering the large ex-
perience that has been had this way, under
both the single and double-headed systems,
we think ourofficers, civiland military, might
learn some useful lessons from the ‘Teachers
and School Committeemen of the goodly
City of Boston. §

The attention of Government has
heen directed by Gen. Banks to Southern
INinois asa fine field for cotton raising. It is
said there are, in that State, from 5,000,000
to 10,000,000 of acres admirably adapted
for the purpose, capable of yielding from 300
to 500 pounds per acre; and that at one

tine almost the entire population was engaged
in the culture. ‘The cotton produced there
corresponds in’ quality and staple to that of
‘Tennessee.
he sent from the Patent Oftice to enable the
lurmers to make a fair trial of the capability
of the soil, ; 3

a ee p++

——A Rehmond correspondent of the

Supplies of cotton seed are to

Memphis Ap eal is “telling tales out of
school.” An x other statements is one to
the effeet that olenco has inereased to so
frightful ane nt in Richmond, that it is
likely te!

Tay

ous infamous as oven Balli-
xwan, Stabbings and shoot

ton, every-day OCCUPETORCES,

8
we wee

ject is being agitated of eon-

ny
neeting our coast naval and military stations
by telegraph, An interesting letter, ns Co its
practicability, cost, advantages, ete., has been
addressed hy Cyrus Wo Field, of Atlantic
Telegraph memory, to Maj-Gen, MeClellan,
and by hin endorsed to the Seoretary of
War. ‘Tho President of the United States
Senate has also just appointed a select Com:
titles to consider and report on the ex pedi-
cacy of making such a eennection,

ras .

“The public is on tip too with anxiety
and curiosity relative to the Burnside Mx pa-
dition to. ne one knows where,---the Butler
Kx pedition, part of the forees of whieh sniled
South weeks aye, and the formidable foet
desipned to operate on the Western waters,
nnd to move partiontorly apgainat the enemy
on (he Mississippi River,

The destination of the Burngide ox podition
hit been changed in consequence ef the
eniny Nusinaps ndyined af the contomptated
aeone of notion by some Waslingtan spy,
who pained the information through a tunily

convertion of a high official, §

twee a

Coy. Miokous linn ined a proclaim
tion nneuneiay thal South Carolina is inva:
dled, uid Charleston (hromtoned, by land aad
by nen, with largo Cveed. Phe thevatave sults
fer P2000 yvolunteor, toserve for 12 mouths
IP tot nooner discharged, mil giver nation
that unloss tho endl da promptly mnawered, tin

phil have recourse to dratting. 4

twee

This vtanered Chat Chon. Patlesk is
iwbieoul beings ordered too the eomnand al
the Potomme Divinion sand that Clon. Piavked
id te he trinafiaced tothe Missourd Division.
I trae, we Uhhole it naps well tor tho ta

(aie. 4

tweens

An fav id wa oan judge fom the va-
dione van como allont, Gon. MeClotlan
Vlas

Haaser piven for aayatily big, thos eana ia, toot

han heen, pevhope oil is, sevionnly ill,

His cromy chanhl dale advantage al) to in

tolliponno, aud stoal a Hanvely on aa | q

t wew

Jn apprelwnatan of nn attvh fon
the Union fineot, Gan. Miyeudor hin ap
pind ta the rebel Covormiont fv wuthority,
whould dos deem dt adydaable, to burn Vark-
lown, Vi 4

(moms

Nhe banlas of Hoaton, New Yorl,
Philadistphla, and Baltinora, have mitaponsad
wpouia paynnent, Wb will load toa gene
rel piaponsin throughout the Union Atates;
Hiews af raboldone livia buen diver to the

inenative fone alnoe r)

ate g moe pF

yu Marnplis § ppoud says tho Mobots
wie daprecsing blush fate the anilitary oor

\jete

THE EXPEDITION AGAINST MEXICO.

The Albionic-Gallie-Hispaniolie Expe-
dition, which has so long been threatening
impoverished, degraded Mexico, hag at length

commenced active operations. The Spanish
the allied
Havana on the 2d, reached Vera Cruz on
the Sth, and took posession of the city on the
L5th ult., without meeting with the least re-
sistance.

The Spanish Commander, Don Manuel
Gassett, on demanding a surrender, was in-
formed by Gov Uraga, that he had that very
morning, by order of the Mexican Govern-
ment, issued a proclamation for the evacua-
tion of the city and forts, and consequently
that the Spanish troops would encounter no
opposition. Commander Gassett issued an
address to the people, full of fraternity and
goodwill, in the most approved fashion of the
times, copied after an antique model, labelled,

“Ts it well with thee my brother?”

Of course the true intent is that every
thing shall be conducted in a beeoming man-
ner for the advantage of Spain, though to
the disadvantage of Mexico, or for the disad-
vantage of Mexico, though to the advantage
of Spain ; at the option of the distracted Re-
public.

He declares that they have come on ‘no
inission of conquest, nor for interested mo-
tives.” He exhorts the Vera Cruzeans to
“fear nothing from the Spanish soldiers,”
and is confident, after fulfilling the mission
confided to it, the army will return home
“with the certainty of having merited your
affection.”

Commander Gassett also issued an ad-
dress to his soldiers, in which he alludes to
that crucl, bloodthirsty conqueror, Cortez,
““vho with a handful of Spaniards bore the
ensign, of the Cross and civilization, making
the world resound with
[horrid and brutal] deeds.” “Our mission
is fully as glorious. We come to command
satisfaction for insults offered to our flag,”
ke. Ke.

On the eve of disembarkation, the troops
saluted their commander with a song ; or as
it is stylad Aymn, yery properly, not on ac-
count of the saeredness of its character, but
from being a song of praise ; praise and adu-
lation to Spain, whom ‘no one shall insult
with impunity.” This effusion was com-
posed for the oceasion, and is thus translated
for the New York Evening Post :

CHORUS.

“EInste to the field of battle,
Litt up the warlike strain,
‘God save the Spanish kingdom!
We go to Aight for Spain,’

portion of fleet set sail froin

his marvellous

The Mexiean dominion
Broke off, in an evil hour,
With mad and impious rashness,
From Spain’s maternal power.
And ever since that moment
Has anarehy borne sway,
Nor over, on the region,
Has dawned one happy day.

Spain sees cho sieht of horrer,
And shuddering as she views,
Sho calls her valiant army
_ Po march on Vera Craz.
Now is the moment, soldiers,
To prove by gallant deeds
That victory ever follows
Wherv’or the Spaniant leads.”
wos 7G mmm amen
——Anmong the passengers who recently
arrived at New York from Port Piekons, was
Lovi Mann, a highly intelligent colared por
son, who went out in Mareh last, asa waiter
on board of tho steamship Star of tho West;
which, it may bo remembered, was seized by
the rebels, at tndinnola, ‘Texas, and carried
to New Orleans, where hor crow were hand-
ed over to the rebel quartermaster, as prison:
ors. Ele furnishes a ciremustantial and in-
toresting necount of hiss seven months? im
prisonmont, a stutomont of the lashing, heat-
ings, and various other erpel treatment
he ondured, the rebbery to whieh ho was
subjected, &e, Tle was at Ponsacola during
tho recent bombardment frome Fort: Melkens,
Lto etimates the rebel troops atcand in the
vieinity of the Mrmor place, ax mumbering
20,000 5 two Mississippi regiments are alos:
Hitite of pans; xo that, whilst on pieket or
borrowing aract.  Gvery soldier, however, ix
furnished with a bowie-uites soni of whieh

weapons ate vory formidable, being fear:
foot to two foot in length. Many of the rank
and filo, he eonjeetures threo toucthy, are
geod Union men, and anly await a ding op
portunity loamake known their provlivities,
Shall pox, monster, fever aml ague, and
Lyphoit foyer have provailed among thom
during the Stummer, and proved very tital,
When ho lett the interior of Albani, where
hho wos fora dime held in daranee, it was ool:
that than S000) cluimed ns

slaves in that State, had esenped, and sveve-

mutated vane
tol thomimolves ta the woods, swatting dhe
anticipatod arrival of Union traps, and choir
consequent liberation, "Phe iinsters exervine
the dont brated Croatinont towards the shives;
dt i any two are fond conyvoraing together,
whieh ia poremptorily forbitden, thoy are
plniohod with aoe tandred or mere lnahon
applied ta the nile holy. 4

toe’

Siatoon of the oll hallis, eonatitad ing
w portion of tho citer ead, have heat aus
somnfilly mink wt the ontranen atthe Charles:
ton tnober, whereby, it ia maid, Chat pea port
in olliotaully, if net ieetiinvally eloavd, aul
valine af the proud aity

the commiuorolal

uttary vuln, Pealy and justly, we aay
ait, lo thoy ntelliny perils hy peut, Harel poviln
hy tinned.

Tho Charleston Mursargy neat dha iden
Chat nny pornianent dairy, ov indood, wy
obatiitotion, bat of the alighteat Comporary
charnetor, wilt result: Mons thin pracoadtinygs.
Tttoolares that all poet exporioned ahows
What aeb obstandia, by che wetion of the wha
neil waver, Wilh enon ha ewept nviy, lng
Hho harbor ag theo to nivigathin a beret
tia. 4

weet
A thea ooonrvil at
Ty Decenbor, whlal slostiayed noaly ob,

Nanhville, Cone,

(HID, OOF worth of malay atapen

guard duty, Choy are under the nevessity of

The Line,

LETTER FROM OHIO. .
Prava, 0., Dee. 2, 1851.

Editors of The Pine and Palm: Some
time since, | promised to let you know some-
thing further from this part of Ohio. Mr.
i. P. Walker of Toledo, held a most glori-
ous meeting in ony city, the 10th inst., on
the subject of Haytian Emigration. After
he had closed his able and cloquent address,
in behalf of the Movement, thirty-two persons
came forward and signed their names to the
club, Mr. Walker is a self-made man, and
is well adapted to the masses of colored peo-
ple; in fact, more so than many who are
more polished. He is all the people want,
a plain, practical, common-sense man, appa-
rently honest in all he says. He expects to
go out in the Spring, with a number of
others.

I am glad to say the feeling is growing in
favor of the Movement, and you may look
for quite a number at an early day from this
point. In order that mony of my friends
who are still opposed to the Movement, and
ask for further information from one of their
number who Aas been to Haytt, may be grati-
fied, I have decided to go out in the Spring,
with the intention of returning during the
next Summer, and giving my impressions of
the country, and judgment in favor of immi-
gration, or not. At present, LT have not the
least idea but that I will like the country,
especially its advantages for making money ;
for without money, we cannot be comfortable
in any country.

T am sorry to see there is so much opposi-
tion to Mr. Redpath’s paid agents; also
that there is opposition to Mr. Redpath
himself. Now I would ask any sensi-
ble man if he expects men to labor night
and day for a cause, without some remunera-
tion. For instance, Mr. Ek. P. Walker, of
Toledo, has been travelling for several weeks
leeturing day and night, without pay. And
‘be assured, he is working as earnestly as
those who get pay. But is it right ?

If Mr. Redpath has “paid agents,” it is
no more than right. We ought to feel grate-
ful that he has something for our learned men
to do, and money to pay them for their ser-
vices. I have no idea the sum paid is so
large as to induce men to sacrifice their prin-
ciples to obtain it. If this Movement is ad-
vantageous to the colored people, let us sup-
port the men engaged in it; if itis not, let
us discourage it with all our might. But to
determine that, we must make a thorough
investigation of the whole scheme, in all its
bearings. There are some of us who expect

_to go to Eayti for the purpose of making
money, as well as seeuring our liberties ; and
we expeet to heeome citizens. But if, at
at some future time, we should want to take
up our abode in some foreign land, we should
do so; for we consider anywhere upon God’s
foot-stool, it is our right to live, as much as
others; we eare not what their complexion.

But the ereat idea with us, in my judg-
iment, should be, for us to coneentrate some-
where, (as we have not, and [tear we never
will, in this eountry,) and why not let that
place be Hayti.

The inducements offered by that Govern-
ment, and its feilities are greater than those
of any other. We are doing nothing here.
Our learned men are confined to a few
branches of literary employments, and the
uniearned are contined to the menial work of
tho whites ; excepting those who aro owners
of farms, and are able to give themselves
employment. Wo want, and ought to have,
more than this ; our interests are ap, varied,
ae sheukl be, as theoo of any other er,

Woe have been hopetul of Mr. Predo\ek
Douglass’s making the trip to Hayti, Wind
ho intended dving last Spring, Wo regarw
his opinion of great importance. With his
world-wide reputation, ho would) go among
tho Haytians with moro prestige, which
would vive hint greater advantages than any
man we have in’ the country. — He would
ponetrato the veal condition of their athiirs,
mud report accordingly, Why not urge hin to
ronew his intention ?

Tho war is scl moving on, regardless of
eolored mens but, since the Bridsh Tien has
growled, itis not certain it will continye re
gardless of them, Yours truly, M.

THE APPAR AT OSSAWATONIB,

JUN UROWN to tN.

AS UARLAPER UY UArt. RUSE.

On the evening of Aug 20th, Lo passed
through the tewn ef Ossawatomio sac) the
Forry Timet my sou Fredevivk, who brought
mo news trom below. UL tad but a short ine
torviow, thinking to seo him again: seo. 1
learned bore that a company were advancing

ic

or blankets, and must have suffered had it
not been for a few wild berries, and, later,
the gift of a little corn meal and molasses,
from a poor Indian. May God bless him for
it. It was one of the best gifts I ever re-
ceived.

I was since told, by an officer of that
Company, that they carried off three wagon
loads of the dead from that engagement, and
about fiffy wounded. And, sir, if the whole
people of Ossawatomie had turned out, and
done their best, we should have routed them
entirely, and saved the town.

COLORED AMERICAN PATRIOTISM,
IL.

vised the Constitution of New York, in 1821,

speaking of the colored inhabitants of the

State, said :

“My honorable colleague has told us, that,

as the colored people are not required to con-

tribute to the protection or defence of the

State, they are not entitled to an equal par-

ticipation in the privileges of its citizens.

But, sir, whose fault is this? Have they

ever refused to do military duty when called

upon? It is haughtily asked, Who will

stand in the ranks shoulder to shoulder with

with a negro? I answer, No one, in time of
peace ; no one, when your musters and train-
ings are looked upon as mere pastimes; no
one, when your militia will shoulder their
muskets and march to their trainings with as
much unconcern as they would go to a
sumptuous entertainment or a splendid ball.
But, sir, when the hour of danger approaches,

your white ‘militia’ are just as willing that
the man of color should be set up as a mark
to be shot at by the enemy, as to be set up
themselves. In the war of the Revolution,
these people helped to fight your battles by
land and by sea. Some of your States were
glad to turn out corps of colored men, and to
stand ‘shoulder to shoulder’ with them.

In your late war they contributed largely

toward some of your most splendid victories.
On Lakes Erie and Champlain, where your
fleets triumphed over a foe superior in num-
bers and engines cf death, they were manned,
in a large proportion, with men of coler.
And, in this very house, in the fall of 1814,
a bill passed. receiving the approbation of ail
the branches of your government, authorizing
the Governor to accept the services of a corps
of two thousand free people of color. St,
these were times, which tried men’s souls.
In these times, it was no sporting matter to
bear arms. These were times, when a msn
who shouldered bis musket did not know but
he bared his bosom to receive a death wound
from the enemy ere he laid it aside ; and. in
these times, these people were found as ready
and as willing to volunteer in your service as
any other. They were net compelled to oo;
they were not drafted. No: your pride had
placed them beyond your compulsory power.
But. there was no necessity for its exercise ;
they were volunteers ; yes, sir, volunteers to
defend that very country from the inroads
and ravages of a ruthless and vindictive foe,
which had treated them with iusult. degrada-
tion and slavery,

Volunteers are the best of soldiers. Give
me the men, whatever be their cowples-
ion, that willingly volunteer, sud not those
who are compelled to turn out, Such men
do not tight) from necessity, nor from
mervenary motives, but from principle.”

The Hon. Tristam Burges, of Rhode Tsl-
and, ins speech in Congress, January,
1828, said — At the commencement of the
Revolutionary War, Rhode Island had a
uumber ofslaves. A regiment of them were
vulisted into the Continental service, and no
braver men met the enemy in batde; but
Net ono of them was permuted to be a soldier
wht) ho had first been a freeman.”

“In Rhode Uslaud,” says Governor Eustis,
in his ablo speech against slavery in Missouri,
12th December, 820, “the Backs formed
an ontive regiment, and thoy discharged their
duty with zeal and fidelity. The gallant de-
tenvo of Rad Bank, in which the black regi
mont bore a part, fs among the proofs ef their
valor.”

In this contest, it will be recollected thst
four hundred men met and repulsed, after a
terrible and sanguinary struggle, fiteeu
hundred Hessian treeps, heads by Count
Donop. The glory ot tho dedenes of Red
Bank, whieh has been pronenneed one of the
most hewie aotions of the war. belongs ta
reality to black omens yer who now hears
thom spoken ef in connection with it?
Among the traits whieh distinguishal the
blk regiment was devotion to their attcors.
Ti tho sitack mado upon the American tines,
near Croton river, onthe Pah of May UST,
Col. Greene, the commander of the reginent,

to dlostrey tho town, As erpeoted them
trom the east, Eweut out in that direction
about one mile, and eauped.  Whily propae
ing our breakthat, next morning, a messenger
came it haste, saying the enemy were con:
ing {vom the west, and tad killed one mia.
Without tinishing our teal, wo hastened bavk
to town, AC tho Bovry, PE loarned: that the
man Killed was my sen redoriok.

Lhaviied|y propared to moot them, with
wot move than thirty mens We selected: ovr
position aimler cover et Cinbor and under
brush. ob diveetedl each man to select for
Himsell a goed position, where he gould see
cad ned dascen, watt uid egel war aire of
his man, and, at the word, pull away and
waste we poteder, My son Oliver TP kept near
me, Hot Knowing haw he would conduct hin
aol, hetng as yet but a hey, TL seen found,
however, that he was doing well

Our (rst dro out Chon down tecribly, and
threw them inte sneh eontision as do give us
sidat audvantigge. They huddlod together
Bee a took ot shoop.

Wo sontinied one tring andl dhe ofligors
gave the order te fauk right anil loft, wtond:
tg to snr ai. 1b thon ordered are
troat, diveetings enol man Co took: out fay bin
aul. ‘Bhose whe contd awit, ebassed at the
Honreal point,

Ono ma war hillad Having aresed tho
river, ho was olimbing the apposite bank,
whon he was shot through the head, Charley
Woyaor, one of ay beat mon, wae uvertiken,
and jttorwatts murdered. As LE oould: net
awit, | was obliged to ge aoe distin dawn
the river, te tila potatavhore Pcowlt wade
Weboaa, .
Hore Litvak ay piatels aid papers in my |
hana, ail wont through. Aton tine the |
watar came ap by nyc mand, bit LT veachod
the abure in aatoty, |

Davi ny tight. a]
spout ball atruek wear my abuniler blade,
Inet til wee AavChoe iyjany chan oanalng. a ae
vere tmeting, addlar te the ova ata!
whip.

Tloarned aflotwatds, that this company
ovhibitnd a grag scade, whieh Chay sail thoy
tiok Nam OAC Aci, amt over publiahod
wi neat ot hew choy halal him i the
river, osoibine tha manner ie whieh |
Wistandil, nba tangy that thoy know thoy Vind.

1 owae now niles Hoa Ctondd, without toad

around dhe cont at’ the hoya

Was eutdown and mortally wounded 5 but the
stbres of cho enemy only reached him theough
tho bodies of his fhithtal gual of blacks,
who gathered anmand hia to pootect hin, ad
everyone of whors was dled,
The celebrated Charles Dinekuey, of
South Carolina, in his speceh on the Missouri
question, ant in: defouee of tho slave repre:
sentition af the South, made the flowing
adivissions :
PONG the commencement of our Revela
tionary struggle with Qoeat) Reitain, all the
States had chix: class of wept. ‘Tho Now
Eugland States had wnniturs af then: the
Northern amd: Middle Status had still mons, ab
though loss Cua tho Souchern Sey ad ow
fered dreds Che read oneatost wird srt tees,
the dretiren they contented ror the Quant
ofthe whoce, loawing deach the right te pus
aud ity happiness in ibcawn way, They we
nobly tailed wd bled together, anally dite
dovtdven. Awl itis a renarkable faot, chat
notwithstanding, tn the course of the Reve:
ution, che Southorn States wees continually
avereun by the Beidish, and every nogen in
thom tad ae opportunity: at vanning away,
yet tow did “They chon wore, as they sal
amos valuable a peertat our populaden. te
the Union as any other equal muber ef in
habicaits. “Phoy were in mimeo iistinees
the pionoors, wd inal the hebowws af your
verter, db thelr Aanadls wear entny ke
ervetton uf the gatos? pard of be fureemor
Hons rade Rie tao enneotion AU A
ig. Bort Mouttrin ave, atau wuly poriad
at tho THEN porte and wntried valor at our

erties, tamerkelity. ote Amarin avats
And in the Novthory States, ummeneus

Vdios of them wore enndled and Gught,
alte Apatite di the aMties, the battles at
the Revolution.”

Sail Martindale, af Now York, ta Con:
Aton, Sh ot damary, PSte Slaves, ar
Woataod Who bad boon staves, wen enlisted
as soldives in tho Wan of the Revotation ;
wil Voyselt saw a bataiion of ahem, aa
tlie eartial loading menas Lever saw, at
Riohod to the Northern anys in dhe last war.
ov its mah tn Matiabarg te Sackett’
Harbor."

Lar Be cen cinyen |]

(mew t

always a ap hitual vainbaw
doprrtnd

Thove ia

Dr. Clarke, in the Convention which re- .

LETTER FROM PHILADELPHIA.

Pruitaperrnca, Dee, 28, 185t.
Correspondence of The Pine sal Patm.
To the Editors of the Pine and Palm: Some-
body, somewher, tells us that

‘A Htde folly, now and Chen,
Is relished by (he wisest men”

It oceurred to me that a frifing contribution to -

your columns, from the City of Brotherly Love,
bricks and beauty, might not, oceasionally, be un-
acceptable to your readers; especially at this sea-
2on of mimes end masks, while your worthy In-
quirer, having laid aside his pen, is handling his
partner in the mazy dance. So, T thought [would

seize the foolscap; leaving him the bell(eds, and, :

pleading the license of Merrie Christmas time. just

take a shot at folly as it flies, urging a sportenan’s °

: i
privilege to wake a little game. Thanks to the ur- ;
banity which characterizes the denizens of this)

goodly city, 1 have been admitted within the
charmed circle
“Where youth and pleasure meet,

To chase the glowing hours with flying feet >~ '
where, although I could nor keep step to the music |
“softly sweet, in Lydian measures,” yet TP took al
note of the movement, and cannot retrain from ex: |
pressing my surprise at the rapid advance made by
fashionable females in emancipating themsel es
from the tyranny of the toilet. I noticed, as that:
eminen: naturalist, A. Gasees, remarks in his I
treatise on Tertiary nuges, that the tendency of:
female fashions iz, under favorable circumstances, |
towards Evelike simplicity in the matter of drapery ;
—thait there is a marked evidence of a return to the :
mode of dress which prevailed during the cartier
periods of mantua-making; and to that unadorned |
style of costume which captivated our great pro- -
genitor, Adam, and which Cowper alludes to when |
he informs us that “clothing costly, or for use, |
save their own painted skins, our sires had none.”
Hence, we may infer that among the many ener- '
yating and corrupting habits introduced into’
Britain by the Romans, was that of wearing cloties; |
and that dress may be considered as a sign of that i

decradation which compelled the unhappy Britons,

trembiing in their tunics, to call upon the blue-cred |

Saxon to save them from being Pict up, and to
keep them Scot free. Be that as it may, coming
down to modern times, we finda celebrated writer,
only 150 years ago, bewailing the influence of!
fashion in these words: “The most improper things ©
we commit in the conduct of our lives, we are led |
into by the force of fashion. Instances might be
given, in which a prevailing custom makes us act
agains: the rules of Nature, law, and cominon
ger ¢.””) Now, it must be remembered that at that
period, society dressed absurdly, and I suppose that
the above remarhs were suggested by some pecn-
Harly absard specimen of toile: which had offended
the writer’s sense of propriety.

But much progress has been made since that
time; and fashion, reduced to a science, cultivates
dress as an art; divesting the female figure of the
disigurements with which the vitiated and un-
natural taste of the past has conspired to conceal
Nature’s masterpiece, and enabling Art to perform
its highest function in presenting natural beauties
either to our senses, or to our imagination. ‘

The tendency of this fashionable reforin is down-
ward; that is to say, from the head towards the
fee:. Progress in this respect, like in every other
where aatiquated notions have to be overcome, is
slow; but, judging froin my own recent observa-
tion, I should say that satisfactory results have al- .
ready been reached; warranting the anticipation
of atime, not very remote, when the perfection of
Powers’ and the truthfulness of Pave’s delineation ©
of the female form, may be realized in our ball-;
rooms, end verified in our boudoirs. ;

Apropos to this subject, permit me to present you |
with a specimen of fossilized opinion peculiar to
the class Foyee Antiquus, remains of which are to
be found in the various strata of society, down to
the earlier formations. !

This specimen is suppose] to have been alive and |
grundling in England, about the year 1712. I
bring it forward as a proof of the penchant of fe-
toales for the puris naturalibus style, and as a proof |
of the opposition which woman has nad to encoun-
ter, and still meets, in her endeavors to throw off |
the coverings that caneral her charena: i

“My, Spectator,—[ am entirely of your opinion
with relation to the equestrian females, who affect
both the masculine and ferninine air at the same |
time; aud cannot forbear inaking & presentment :
againat another order of them, who grow very
humerous and powerful; and since our language
Jenot very capable of good, corpouml words, I
Inust be contental w call therm only ‘the naked-
shouldered! .

provide for the future, that

Thope, Sir, you will qd ( 1
women may ry ty their faces for doing any’

further mischief, and not allow any but direet
tryters in beauty 14 expose more than the fore part
of the neck, unless you please to allow this atter-
game to thos who are very defective in the charins
of the countenance, Jean aay, to my sorrow, the
prevent praction is very unfair, when to look back
is death; and it may be said of our beautics, a3 the
great pat did of bullets,

i
“Yue. ead wound. like Parthians, ae they Ny. :
Jeubinit this to souragimated vision; and at, for
the Jitte while [have teft, your humble rervient,
ae H
the lansuibing Patnanines |

”
Being happily emancipated, or nearly eo, from |
auch narrow notions, we moderns can Jaugh at

such antiquale! squeamiciness and revel in our

slavery

| GUBERNATORIAL MESSAGES.
{ Wis our intention, so far as opportunities
Dotter and space will admit, co extract and) present

may

: ey: i
' to our readers sich portions of the Saute. Goeverne |

ors’ Messaces, as may have special fiterest: trom
thelr veladions to the great question of the day, or
oto the deadly strife new vacin sin te tand,
Massaciesgris.cc The Ugreat
Comet commenced its annual session on Che st

nnd general
“inst. Gov. Andrew delivered his Message on Fri-
day faster it and
We sive the opening and clositne para.

interesting deen:

is along, ate
ment.

‘graphs, and that part having special reference

! to our nation's cause.

 eCalled by the election of the people of Massacku-

setts, We are assembled at the Capitolof the Com.

| ties and car By the faver ef our fathers’ God—-
whose blessing we most humlty implore, from
whom cometh down all strength and wisdom, and

i
t

nate in all the circumstances of their history, and

in the opportunities of patriotism, rising te the |
height of the great occasion, wirding up thefrtoins |

fand stretehing out their hands to grasp and en.
Pconnter the future, are summoned to a new Conse:

eration to the eause of Him, of their country, and
, 3

the lights of mankind.

You, as lawgivers of the State, will Knew how
Dest to assist and guide them, by devoting an hour
te anestimate of our present condition, prospects,
and wants, . : . : : .

OUR NATIONAL CAUSE.

The ultimate extinction of human slavery is| ine
evitable. That this war, which is the revolt of
(eheekmated Uy an election and perma-
nenily subordinated by the census) not merely
against the Union and the constitution, bart against
popular government and democratic institudons,
will deal it a mortal blow, fs not less inevitable, t
may not argue the proposition; but itis true,
And, while the principles and opinions adopted in
my earliest manhood, growing with every year in
streneth and intelligence of conviction, point al-
ways to the policy of Justice, the expediency of
Humanity, and the necessity of Daty, to which the
relations) of our Government and People to the
whole subject of slavery form no exception, so that

have always believed that every Constitudonal
power belonging to the Government, and every
Just influence of the people, ought to be used to
limit and terminate this enormous wrong, which

‘ enrses not only che bondman and his master, but

soil they stand wpon—[ vet incan,
tye

blasts the very
as Thave done since the beginning of the “S
ion’—I mean to continue to school myself 10 si-
lence. [cannot suspect that my opinions, in view
of the past, can be misconceived by any to whom
they may be of the slightest consequence or curi-
osity. Nor do T believe thatthe faith of Massachu-
seus can be mistaken or misinterpreted, The re-
cord of her declared opinions is resplendent with
instruction, and even with propheey; but she was
treated for years as the Cassandra or the States,
disliked Uecause of her fidelity to the ancient faith,
and avoided because of her warnings and her testi-
mont. And now, when the Divine Providence is
jeading all the people in ways they had not im-
magined, Dwill notdare avem st to ran before, and
possibly imperil the trath jtsel. Let him lead to
whom the people have jgned the authority. and
the power. One vreat duty of absorbing, roval
patriotism, Which is the prblic duty of the oeca-
sion, demands us all te follow. Placed in no sitta-
tion Where it becomes me to discuss his policy, J
do not even stop to consider it, The only question

_ Which [can entertain is what to do, and when that

question is answered, the other is what next to do
inahe sphere of activity where itis given me to
For by deeds and not by words, is this
people to accoinplish their salvation.

Let ours be theduty jn this great emergency to
furnish, in unstinted measure, the men and the
money required of us fur Cie common defence,
Lec Massachusetts ideas and Massachusetts priuci-
ples go forth, with the industrious, sturdy sons of
the Commonwealth, to propagate and intensify in
every camp, and upon every bauleficld, that love
of equal liberty, and those rights of universal ha-
mnanity, Which are the basis of our institutions;
but let none of us who remain at home, presume to
direct Une pilot or to the hela. ‘To the civil
head of the National State, to the military head of
the National Army, our fidelity, our confidence,
our constant, devoted, unwavering support, ren-
dere: in the spirit of intelligent freemen, of large
minded -citizens, conscious of the ditticultics of
ygoverninent, the responsibilities of power, the
perils of distrust. and division, are duc without
incasure and without reservation. The great re-
bellion must be put down, and its promoters crushed
beneath the ruins of their own ambition. The
greatest crime of history must reccive a doom so
swift and sure, that the cnemics of popular goy-
ernment shall stand in awe while they contemplate
the clastic cncryy and concentrative power of de-
mocratic institauons and a free people. “The mon-
strous character of the crime has never yet been
adequately conceived, nor is language able fit

sana,

describe it. Groundless and causeless in its origin,
jt bevan and grew up, and continues, under the

lead and direction of men who had received all
theAavors, and cnioy all nye hleseinige of our Gove
enmecnt, aia Who were bound by official oaths

-? quaintain it. feckless of consequences, and

a clermined to ruin where they could not rule,

they conspired against the wellare of nearly
thirty millionsef people and their countless pos.
terity; tacy plunged them, with inconceivable mad-
ness, into every danger, and suffering and sorrow,
which ¢an be generated by domestic wac; and they
stand with souls blackened by th Hishness and
audacious barbarity of the crime- -handed and
guilty before God and distery, of the slaughter of
the innocent and the blood of the brave, Y
vight or wrong in its domestic or its fo
judyed by whatever standard, whether of
coey or Of prinvciple, the Americ iise
recownize no social duty intervening between hisa-
sf and his country. Ele anay urge relorin, bat be
haa no right to destroy. Tntiusted with the pre-
Gious inheritance of Liberty, cudowed with (he part
of participation ina popitar government, the Cau-

ialitution makes bim at once the beneficiary and the

defender of interests and institutions be cannot in
norcotly endanger; and When he becomes a traitor
to his country, be commits equal Weason aainst
toantind,

The energies, wisdom and patience of the peo.
ple, their capacity for poverpment as a Corporate
whoie, and thelr capacity of volitary obedience
and subordination, whether in camp ora howe,
are nowon tink ‘This is ue inerely loral, acer

present privileyes and future prospects, idental, teraporary acted insurgency, to be treated

ayes

[fone present attempt mects with eneats
nent, you may hear again from RUNG,
. mom 6 -

LETTERS PROM A COLORED BOLDILR,

Now,

[fn the Sine awd Palin of Nov, Zid, we published

an itercating letter froma colored] individual ute:
We now pre!

tw hed the Burnside Mxpelition,
tent our remlers a necomd letter from the
source, We trust the writer will continue
mayonsenes Sung the progress of (he movement

nataG

lin cor:

in whieh he $a cayagesd: a ineverment that protises
whe the most itnportant of the combined nasal
and muiitary ones yet undertaken. |
Cade Besnetun, Annapolis, Me
Bee, 24, TEED,

!
§
We are still bere, but we ex:

Merarn, Hditurs:
petty cnbark and anil outof this port, on the Jat
af daunury, The flat atlarhed ta Uke Expedition

1 , .
Dhy police ineasdres and cisibearrectiou, iis ear,
The jafluenees, inotiti
Weis and ays.

J Meadful, polemn watt.
ptians aud addierents of despotic

Pttins, reacting: apainat the Of prapres:
prion Ja diberal povernimcnt, farrayed theta
ceflves aigunst) the only peaple and the anty
Coational power where Democnery hiv iv eit

'deloand a home on the face of all the earth.
The despotic clement in America, com qari
Dagainst our country’s Nathonnl Lite, aoticdpated its
own carbest demonstrations of farce by treyiny to
eptend the Conspiracy to the: diebedon of all the
“nations whe feel power aud forget ahebh’ In
volved in this controversy for hile, for teedom, nad
“for honor, let Maaniehusetts, dn followhig the thie

gl keeplog step to the musie of the Union, never
‘failte prove tontbthe world that fn all the char:

aeteristies of her peagle ale bs te aig tin ple waa of

old wher she it was who fist anfarted the thee, aud

pitebed the tag Heneetorth there will be ne one
Dieeconnider how to Sreconsteaer’ the Onion, 0

chiding Sew Loghind from the sisterhood of state:

Wherever for Genie, ar heromm, or hood
othe call Chey heard, the people af New Bata
Phase responded by opening the dap of thedr adie:
Dairy, aad by the aaareh of ther braves, And new
(when the beauty of our baraed sheen stain an ete

Phil places, aad when ber Lee, aid Revere, ane

SiS

monwealth, to angurate a year of momentous Ine.

whe alone can give the victory—this people, fori |

will nurnber about one bunds) vessels of diflerent | floc wood, aed Bownt lie in felons! cells, mud
kiteis womne nse shipsotwar, gunboats, aud tana) hundreds of her rons wear out then hearts dn sad
gors, The anny mak and file numbers between Leaptivity, vietiinsof their valor and devotion to aut

; ° : : "Vaan, one Prrepressible daputee ineved our people
“if yf nn. The “ . ay One * ‘
25,09 ed 000 men. The offleers nid men are aid inspite our soldiers be the Held one prayer to
well dicdpiing!, anocd, and cquippad, and are: see the day whenoan army of loyal Amerients

realy fora fyht, Weare going down to Dixie's

Land, to carry Ue sword and the conatitutlon, you |
We expect to like:

wi hear froin us before long.
feyeah, box bing, devel him “dead, and send
him ty Banker Whit, on or before the Fourth of
daly. ‘Vhen the Danner of libeny will go up.

Qur Government has eansendered Mersrg Mason

and Blidell, bat we will not ylve vp the Beuth, for!

it hina cost ua tog much, sod her vast tersdtory ean
Bnd tauat be en:uverted date free nad Por free ait,
Ireesperthye of calor, All went well with the
eeritea) Amerlenns here, upto the Zath diet, when
anncecident palofal te relate, happened to ane of
ane nace,
qualities, bath of head and heart.
hy all who knew him. Pls

Thompeon, wad he was attached ta the with Meg

Jl waa beloved

name win dota

ment Shas, Volunteer, aud when at heme, realted

with bis mother, al Noo UE Myrtle street, Bustan;
he wag veulentally shot with a pleted bullet, which
fotaeed completely through his body, and lie died
the same aflernoon, ‘The young man who shot
hin was one of hls comsades, nud this fret renders
the matter tore palatal. hs fateral tak plice
an the wmasnlag ot the Zi Tt ves largely attend
6d Wy lilegetes from Wiese veral regiments attached
Us the division, and the burial scrviee, whibel woe
condueted by the chaplain of the “th Regiment,
wee very Snpoaliy.

The weather here buy een, adds new delight
ful, Vda with us nov, najida yenevatty with you
Sa the month of Heptembeur aud Getaber

GOVEENGI.
Ain Heyhinent COV

fire i

{fe wea younpy wan posseadug fine |

Pahl hummer at the docs of thelr prisanheuncs,
twith both bands pledged to the solernn tisk of win,
god vith pelther iad avested toonphebd the Patt
tution whieh is the enuse of abl (hia woe; and teat
(heir bow sbalt tern not back, and thei: sword ve
‘turn net cooply, antl the pra detiveranes ntuall
(he accomplished,

Betatora and Representatives:

Pinvole your study ta prormete all the diterests
Safmesalty, dedustey, Ueatt, aad vitor, no thet ote
Commonsealth and fier people may craw all the
Dheight at eterpiiac, virtne aod honor. Attended
Ny your wiadoi, napported by yous ayonputhey, f
yealseend the chair, ae ation na! se vworthily Aled
Ly pteat mapistiabes and pood men, med yor will
erly equal ateps da teending: the paths their
Neves Wamdned,  daspiccd by trast in Gad, aod an
Juninottial diate of Wrong, det an comacernte te day
every permoiil asplation and every private hope,
fone dolled apostrophe to our conntey nad hee
case OWhere Hot yovst PE will yas nod where
Niet todgeat Eval lode; thy pesgele: atiall be ney
S people, wid hy Geel my Gob, where thou lest
WAS lie, ced there will f lie taededt ?

. t wom 6

We wre dadebted ta Pvot, Go Vashon of

Pittnhwg, Va, for the adidiiable transition of tha

My thor Mills, fea the wethele of Mous. (Tf

Vinw, which appeared ine) paperat dee 7, T6d,
swow es

Mibctente aan

en a ee a Was Wetts
i Brown all detiver an Addvecsa, on thes (laeds Mau’a
| Pative la the Heathers istites, at the Meionunen,
; (Tremont Tensple,) on Banday eventape aeat, das

i svtla Adhiubaatan 6

beenin, ta py Capedines,
| lees

Sentimental young lady, rescued from liowa

‘Yo commence al 7) ofetuck.

D

GLANCES AT CONGRESS,
Tuonspay, dastary 8, 1882,

Sex eii- Mir. Ring presented a petition, numer:
ousty sirned by the citizens of New York city,
praying fer the emancipation of slaves, under the
War power = ME Renneds presented a resolution
trom the State a?’ Marsiaid, protesting against
iaterscrence With slavery in the Siues, by the Gene-
ral Government. Mr. Grimes introdnced a bill an
tesard to the Adininisimadion of Justice in the Dis.
diet of Columbia, whieh was retorted. Adjourned
to Monday,

Hovsr-- On motion of Mr. Duell, itwas resolved
thatthe Seerctary of Wir inlorm the Tleuse why
cermin voluiteer reciients, from New York, ate

how eheamped without arms, and whether wy
ie

cislation iy necessary onthe part of Congress, to
te the War Deparguent to furnish arms to
recitients now in dhe ticki — Adjourned cll Monday,

Monbay, JANUARY 6.
SESATE.—Mr. Nesinith presented the ereden-
tials OF Benjamin Stark, the appointed Senator
trom Oregon, to th the vacancy by the dead of

Colonel Baker. Mr. Fessenden moved that the ad-
Ininistraiion of the oath be suspended for the pres-
ent. and that the credentials, tovether with certain
papers, be referred to the Committee on thre Judi.
choy. He had papers well attested fram persous of
Portland, Gregon, staging: that Mar. Star Sau
epen, avowed Secessionist. ‘Phe eredenti: nd
papers were laid on the table forthe present.— Vari-
ous emancipation petitions were presented; alsu 2
pedition trom: Penusylvania, chat Gen. Fremont lie
appointed a Licat. General-—A joint resolution was
adapted, dhit the President procure an exchanyze of
prisoners troin the privateer Jet! Davis, tor prison.
ers taken from our Army. Messrs. Sumner, Fes-
senden, Collamore, Clarke, and Tlarris, presented
petitions fur the emancipation of the slaves under
the war power, with compensation to loyal mas-
ters. Mr. Kine (N. Y.) presented a petition from
the Mayor and citizens of Rochester, asking that
the example of Washington and Jackson be tul-
lowed in regard to the slaves, and that they be put
to work for the Government. Mr. Carlisle (Va.)
presented a petition from eitizens of Pennsylvania,
stating that slavery was the cause of whe present
war, and praying that no further agitation of the
subject be tolerated in Congress. ‘The Senate went
into executive session, Adjourned.

Hovss.--Mr. Conklin, of New York, called atten-
tion to the fact that on the second day of the session a
resolution Was adupted with reference to the Ball’s
Biull battle to ascertain who was responsible for
that disaster, without proposing an investigation,
The resylution was handed to the Adjutant Gen-
eral, Who submited jt to the Commander-in-Chief.
He (Mr. Conklin,) was unwilling to believe the
Commander-in-Clief? had read the resolution, be-
cause he would not impute to him a design to tritle
vith the House and return an evasive answer. If
he did read it, he certainly misunderstood its pur-
puse. He seemed to have received the im-
pression that a tature inquiry was to be insti-
tuted, and that of a very general character,
and accordingly expressed his opinion to the Ad-
Jutant General, which was) reported to the
Secretary of War, and transmitted to the llouse.
The answer to the resolution did not inform the
House that steps had been taken to inquire who
was to blame for the disaster at Ball’s Bluth ‘The
response was evasive. Nuw tis was a disregard
of privileges of the House, which ought to require
prompt notice, unless we consent to the trampiing
on our rights. Weshould wate with a jealous
eve, the right of wholesome inquiry. ‘The inquiry
related oa great national cxkunity; to the most
atrocious inilitary uiarder ever committed; toon
most humiliating triumph of rebellion—a blunder
sO #ross That every man can see, and none has ever
dared to deny or defend. Besides a defeat and a
lurse Joss of arms aud ammunition, there was a
sacrifice of Y380 men. ‘The resolution was propusced
out of respect to the memory of these men, and in
deference to public propriety and the: self-respect
of the nation, to inquire whether the amilituy
authorities had taken any steps to ascertain who
was responsible for the slaughter of thy sons of
Massachnectts, New York, and Pennsylvania.
[It was proper to state that the Llouse should be ine
formed, and some inquiry should be anade. Gen,
Stone, who was at the dime in command, is a
inember of the regular army. Colonel Baker was
a volunteer. ‘The respective fricnds of these gen-
Hlemen tad raised a question as to the merits of the
¢, involving the cllicieney of the regulays and
volunteers. He had no toleration for such contro.
versy. An inquiry was absolutely necessary.
Suppose it should turn out that Gen. Stoue was
only half-way cither in soldicrship or loyalty, was
that a reason why there should nut be an investi-
wation?. Was that areason why he should) be re-
hieved from responsibility of a disastrous bhunder?
The man who is to blame should fall upon

4s

his kuces and ask pardon. [Tf Baker was  re-
sponsible, most lamentably bas he suffered,
If General Stone was responsible, a greater

weieht of guilt never rested on apy other min,
Mr. Conklin continued at great length, stating that
the battle of Balls Blut was a helbof fire, and he
thought, after the publication of Adjutant Thomas’
report, relative to Gen. Fremont, certainly no pube
lication of any thing connected with the army
should be suppressed, We should know whether
the Comimauder-inhie® hag tiken the pats (0 it |
quire Who was responsible for the disaster, and
should make the inquiry with the view of obtaining
ananswer, [le was very severe in his commicnts, and
offered a preamble, reciting the resvlution hereto-
“ore adopted, and the resporse, concluding: with a

solution that the answer to itis neither responsive
voy satisfactory to the House, and that the Secre-
tary of War be directed to return a further ap wer,
The resolution was opposed by X s. Richard-
son (HL! Bdwards (N.HL,) and Crittenden City.)
Qs NOL a inalter of proper inquiry by the House, be-
ine purely military in its character, Mir. Rdwaeds
said he had most iiaplicit confidence in Gen. Me-
Gicllan, who was surronnded with so tmnel breach:
cry that he can seareely whisper his plans. We
should strenethen his hands aml cheer his heart,
view of test facts.-- Mr. Coukiin’s resolutign wits
udopled, 7 avait Ol.

Jouuspay, JANuary 7.

Sisati.e Messrs. Pomeroy ind Chandler pre-
sented petitions tor the emancipation of shives.-
Mr. Chandler one for an exchange of prisoners. ~
Mr. Powell dntroduced a bill to abolish Ue frank:
ing qeivilege “The bib relating lo the arrest at
persons elahme! or hell tosersice, ar dabor, by
Ofteers of the Anny and Navy was) token ap, and
homotion to dndetindtely postpone it Was lost Eb
avait gh “The bill was then postponed for the
preent, St provides that amy. oftleer lec
ancl persotis shalt be diselaueed trot the service,
The Kano contested seat was teben Gp, when the
Senate adjourned,

Hfouss.--A Messave was received from the
Vresident, with documents relative to the Trent
attnie Ma Valhindighain of Obie expressed: dis
thanatisfiction at the delivering upoot) Masou and
Slidell, amd predicted wir with) babe an
thaw thace nrotitles, er else av tame: sabaaission toa
reeoe ition of the Southern Comfederney and the
breaking of the blockade. Mr. Tlatehins of Olio
replied, sayiie, Chat his colleagae dad, devetotore,
heen opposed te eacreings the South, but is now
qiniest the delivering upot Mame aud Slidell,
The position of his collegne, cendered hit lable
to the suspicion that dis belligerent nteliade: was
one Which world benelit the rebets, by geting ap
nowar, Wiieb the South wentred with that siew,
Mi. ‘Thomies ol) Masnasvehteetts, said it wa too
mitch: do teouie that the country could dake ung
other war oo dts hands, tel we ated) thereto
want, Bat we are pot called ponte say Chiat the
conduct ol Bagdand wis mails waned jut. DE wane
Homostndy aed tenjiest. Dbe dented (havt en captaniny:
Mle onal Slideth at disalt ta the Bathe tay ona
Voelihon of dateanitional law was datended. The
ioe Chatawe bad aight to de what wan done
on that oeenion, balan Shas done te wea
revo: wroog in demindiny: Mason ind Slidell.
Bova gneatest dopant, and mojiet, bey hand bs
Heaonooy ap for heraelh wrath: apaiint the diy of
wrath, nid bas placed inthe hearts ef our people
ndeep nanae of waang nba Tn wher we cnnpot
respond. [at we nhall be waltehiny toostehe the
hinw of sipbteouws renbutton, The previous ques
Hon was ordered, ail the docatnents were referred
tothe Conunittes on Poreiga Ata.
(iscrsaion wan nll ficther continued, whilnt other
subjects wero before the Poses dn cotmedquence of
which aesnlition win pissed reateletiig debate
to the il teader diseteasdten,

meee

leas

‘The Treat

A ONbAW Sony tes Neto donp oobaeaay cevtuln
quiek, who doaked ay wise ier an awl, wits ad
tlressedd tv ene at dibs parthetite thas

“Doctor, fella baw debs that wher we eat nnd
Hhink, theanent bs aeparated trons he cibak 7

OW, Pilbtell you, tld the learned ian of
pills, Vert ace is bow Chere bi do thie neck tive
pipes oneet thea to reeetse the neat, nad the
other the dink. ACthe topeet them: pipes daa tla
or clapper, wad when we eat thik clapper phat ap
the dela pape, and whee we drink it turn tack
pon the inet pipe nee ai hand of aotiog,
(pieer nppatatices, Daou vet”

“Ha, 1 pul the pationt, “Pe nerues tenis
thivtese chopped ntiat plies hice ge panenns
when werent puddin cnet tith ?

Qraiveh took iin hit acl fil, adbsistog: file patient
Hol teswene at all

Adeizht Sew Yous Gaty, Just beydiaitiee to
fall, was very obaorvait ot ath Caeb parsoeed ieee
her. fhe saw penton witha dag, enter a
foto onthe appostie nidear the steed, ble ebut
Hhedews, ane led) thoelog withant, wha, bye verbo
candi grovements Of nevatedihae ail whined,
Htnitested palatal taspationee,  Maves} ly dite ete
nertiod ane conphatodias, wher tlitaat ber crneall taca
thaeeetagel the tas of ded aigceny ow lifew, site
cred daa eleia, euest tone, bye bebt, dos iet
tage bell

“US, ve bees in cet estate a tithe Rateby
“AVE ohaa, trea natteb fase pau ddpyond be
“Won ht wdot da the cetetesy, avd ae ele eve

focst toesnabe od ae”
“Hoar need what the deaea eld yout tay Chat

“yn Eat and ehadt soacey the wolile beige |
-Practien! pagant "Why ty deag, We a dag!

fond Ciettg te live there 2"
“Yeo, HHL d want a tome bavand the grave‘

THE PINE TREE PROMENADE,
Wincitisren, Dee, 12, 1860,

Well has it been said (hat “Beauty, without vir-
te, is dike a flower withont: perfume.” Many
flowers there are whieh appear beantiful to the
vey andcive us an ideo what beauty should
consistof, in part, in their perfeet svminetry and
way Dlendingof coloy, while they may be odorless;
yet, should we wish to convey the idea of perfect
heauty, we should hardly mention that of exterior,
regandicss of the many little atoms that tend to
make beauty lasting, and ever remembered with
pleasure; ont, passing by that which only gratified
one sense, we would recommend the other, which,
though possessing an humbler style of beauty (ex.
terior), may, in connection with it, leave athouht
tar more elevating in its nature, than that: left by
the more stately appearing.

There is a Lily, tall and graceful, giving an idea
of beauty in form; then that species of elambering
Rose, in which will be found every shade between
pure white and the deepest crimson; here is form
agd color; but, while looking upon them, expres-
stons of admiration will fall from) our lips, with a
rearecthat “they are without perfume;” but we can
tind beauty perfeet, not only to admire, but love
without a regret.

WAVELET.

NEW YORK NEWS.

CoxcerT ror tun CoLorep Orpenan ASy-
LUM.—A_ sacred, patriotic and miscellaneous con-
cert, was civen atthe Rev. Dr. Purker’s chureh, on
Thursday evening, Dec, 26th, for vie benetit of the
Colored Orphan Asylum, by the fiftcen celebrated
Sunday School Vocalists, assisted by Miss Matilda
E. Tocdt, a child twelve years of age, who performed
on the violin, Mr. Boudinvt sang “The Schoolmas-
ter,” with a great deal of effect, and was compli-
mented witha recall, The whole concert was given
under the able direction of My. Horace Waters. At
the present teue, the Asylum is in need of assistance,
and we are glad to see so many interested in its
welfare,
Parton SKATING.—Mr. Samuel Scotron has re-
opened the Skating Academy, on a finer scale than
it has ever been before. The terms are very low,
so as to give everybody a chance to indulge in this
healthy exercise. We would recommend that the
Academy be opened on Saturday afternoons, for
the accommodation of children who are unable to
attend in the evening. An eflicient orchestra is
present every evening. The Academy is in the
Metropolitan Assembly Rooms, and is opened on
Tuesday and Friday evenings.
A New Year’s Sermonx.—The Rev. William
Spelman, pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church,
preached his New Year’s Sermon last Sabbath
evening, It occupied nearly an hour in delivering,
and was listened to with intense interest, to the
close. The sermon abounded jn the events of the
», Haytian Emigration, &e. At the close,
he was presented with a purse, by the chiaeh and
cunzrezation, fora New Year’s present. Mr. Spel-
nan is expected to baptize on next Sabbath, atthe
Rev. Dr, Williams’ church in Amity Street, at
about one o’clock,
Rev. WH. H. Garser.—The Rev. Henry High-
land Garnet returned from his visit to England, on
Tuesday, December 31st, after an absence of four
months. [le assumed charge of his church last
Sabbath, and preached to an overflowing house,
Pach Pickwick,

—-¢ <P eee b-———————-——

Rev. George B. Oheever, D. D.
etch of the Life of the Rev. Groncr B.
pk, D. D., Pastor of the Chureh of the
Paritans, New York. By William Herries, ot
the New York Tribune,
For The Pine and Palm.
The compact litde volune which bears the fore-
voing dle, gives abundant evidence of care and ine
dustry, exercised in compiling tacts and incidents
in the tife of the Rev. Dr. Cheever. The author
has shown excellent: taste in nor distizaring his
work with high sounding compliments of his. sub-
ject. He modestly approaches his pleasant: theme
with acommendably brief introduc tion, then dashes
into the biography, every point of which is served-
up inthe same laconie style as that which charac:
terizes the preface, presenting the reader, throuzh-
ont, With a plain statement of 4 ose features in Dr.
(
I

Ns Nite, whieh relate him to: ciety, and invest
vim with righteous claims to its ‘speet and con-
sideration,

Owing to the impious perse ion brought to
pear ppon the Church of the ) aritans, and their
pastor, this sketch possesses intri sic value Suet at
his tine, and for this reason + ought to
rave a large cireulative.

The family account of the sub,

reer, his progress in the ministry

and success asa controversinlist, .
author, his power asa theologian, ad his nseful-
less as a pastor, are ab compre uded, and set
forth with great clearness. ‘True, a. vould require
an volume to give the life of Dr. Cheever, even to
tell of his warfare with the slave power; but in
this litde book we have the basis of Uint volume
when the time comes for it to be written.

Mr. Herries may well teel honored in being the
Diourapher ef so cninent aonni—such an untiring
ndvoeate of baman rights, Dr, Cheever’s tins been
no uneventtul career. Elis name has long been as-
sockited: in the foremost ranks of the earnest men
of the age, who have devoted their talents and en-
orgies Co the exuse of God and hamanity. His
friends and well-wishers move in the highest moral
aml intellectual cireles, both in this country, and
in Europes aad thousands will be ghd te avai
themselves of this opportunity of obtaining a bet-
ter acquaintance with (he fiets at his history.

twee)

early eas
‘arlessnes
invastry as an

%.
a“

The beerernn or Wa. Wriis Brows.—-This
eenticnan cave his lecture on Wit and Tumor,”
atthe Congregational Chareh lectaure-room, list
evening, to an opprecintive muljence. We da not
hazard anythiog in sayia that those who failed te
attend, lost ono Of the richest treats of the scnson,
Never have we seen any iimber of peaple better
abniscd or more thorouchly interested,  Uaih the
close of the lecture, those gathered were kept) ina
state of nuticipated suspense, as to what was next
Commies! ‘The lecture was so fullaf hits anc amis-
jue reflections on ailected and hypocritical foibles,
that the crowd were hept iia rin from: the apen:
ine toe the elose of the atid, After the lectare was
over, aninnber of pentiomen jnterested theniselves
imanendeavor to secure the repetition of the lec
tuve, or another from the same dndividaal, and we
learn Mat the talented gendeman wilh return on
Clikitnas, ant lecture in Continental Thi No
doubt, a hire auionce with greet him there, for he
iehiy deserves na preat sticcess for his pleastiug ef
torts. The Daily Guardian, Paterson, Nod,
tees
Carr, Urows's Sreosp Lrercnn.--Sadirday
eventig Oper Hall was densely packed with people
to hear the second talloer Capt. dolin Browa, dr
We doube ita larger nudkence was ever assembled
inthe efty. ‘The Kndghts of the Golden Civelo re
ceived the malo share of attention, but portions of
the Kans War and the Virginda Rabt were
hiiethy notleed. As anidglit, perhaps, live been ex
pected, some remarks of the Captabn produc u
lew Hise indasted with spphuse, the hissing be
teominly oma young poltifogser of the elty, of
no accoumtte anybody, elthiersockilly or potideatty
Those wishing: to entise will remeniber that thd
corps beomomnted as envaiyy, aed Ayght with: rithes,
aubie bayonets, revolvers anit caibies, nant will be
corvlatly trained) te tenes with) bayonets, and
sabres, ano wellus tose thely ather avid, On the
slavery question the motte at the brigade pe Pat
down Gremon and tet shivers tale eave of baelt”
adechiation that cho whole conntey, without dis
Hietion of party, ennai will abserthe ta. Gren
Rapida Weekly bugle,

a Lh adkaAN bh COMMUNTOGAPRION
i

Ni. doun tan Ey exaccing'n Wan, }
Philadelphta, Mee Sy, Wal, A bd}
The bdlowlog mined Mrotheen lavtag been elected Ter
2 Yor Has onning Maaante Year, were tlibe day tiertatbed
Wie. later Needtaas, WM
Hho Jonethan Davds, Mob iW Pa Mf
Ure Nathaatel bts, Ww. aM
Woe Bretertch © Movels, OWE aM.
Hie. Thea Vetting, 1 WU tensor
War Agno PY Paateetl, HOM GE Seceotany
Poethetody atten brontadlathens, (ho tl Wo yaad Mnates
we pleased toanmediee the follow fag appelatiienta tar the
vei, to wht
Peer DEetes GAN) Aad
Mio Uavtinen Paneott of Phthatolpita, for Montgomery
coly.
Ho durch OC. Hothttot ierafotearty,, fa the cauatiog ut
Danpliia, Leconibig, bancanter, atl Conabes tnd
Weer Deedee DP WU betoe od Mavetaleep, Ger Use cenntettes of
Vowatila, edie, wed Perey. ‘
fhe dot bettie at Lewtetown, for the enuitles of
Vaebet tan, MDM May, CPeendaes Uibade, chanel Ubeven dbo tore
Heer teens BS Vaated Pidhaag, far the eatatied of
AMepbeny, Weatiimeliod, Favotto, and Wealitgtor
How Mia ties Polaby, War Dotghiaa, damea Unter
abel, cuted Wane €2 0's

te
Utoy, eatel Merahal

Vver Desenaddaonay €°

Hae Coorge Phagey, (rand Hard Hier

Mave Rip bate Heatly, Ttosanters @tacconel Pawson,

Mire Mines Meets, Mveten tired beaver,

Hoe Honeph C direen, Mentor Cased Hlowand
hee tomes E Mboldnnce, dinate Cail Nlowand
Wee Dade Cbanh, Clad Meepetibyatet

free fowda Cones Geant Py ter

Cities on Cossesponitanee Mi Xo Morgan Mentth,
bends IO Hoyenenr, Snip. didats, Win Cooper, wid dota
AL ddaatdons

Aoeetedttow ate bby Be Mase, dotanthivn Boyde, Md,
Vecclonteh @. Mvete, cand Mranete I Molvegtio.

Ceopeatendt tam ante CMa NEY Mace deotoan teva ldon Clason gas Wioneed
fal, Chovlos Hhapac, dane H, [fallowell, Vhowas a. Wee
ten, cid Orono union,

Cuitittten a Deandoihe iW
Wiltlann EP Cilpecsn, atid Phone leat

Mteoa Wa. Uh Hiles,

Siaytinn Ardvertisements,

INVITATION.

Hayti will soon regain her ancient splendor. This
marvellous soil that our fathers, blessed by God,
conquered for us, will soon yield to us the wealth
now hidden in its bosom. Let our black and yel-
low brethren, scattered through the Antilles, and
North and South Aincrica, hasten to codperate
with us in restoring the glory of the Republic,
Mayti is the common country of the black race.
Our ancestors, in taking possession of it, were care-
ful to announce in the Constitution that they pub-
lished, that all the descendants of Africans, and of
the inhabitants of the West Indies, belong by right
to the Haytian family. The idea was grand and
generous,

Listen, then, all ye negrocs and mulattos who, in
the vast Continent of America, suffer from the
prejudices of caste. The Republic calls you; she
invites you to bring to her your arms and your
minds. The regenerating work that she undertakes
interests all colored people and their descendants,
no matter what their origin or where their place of
birth.

Wlayti, regaining her former position, retaking
her ancient sceptre as Queen of the Antilles, will
be a formal denial, most cloquent and peremptory,

our desire and ability to attain a high degree of
civilization, GEFFRARD.

CIROULAR.-—No. I.

To the Blacks, Men of Color, and Indians in the
Caited States and the British North American
Provinces:

Friexps,—I am authorized and instructed by
the Government of the Republic, to offer you, in-
dividually and by communities, a welcome, a home,
and a free homestead, in Hayti.

Such of you as are unable to pay for your pas-
sage will be provided with the means of defray-
Ing it.

Two classes of emigrants are especially invited
—laborers and farmers. None of cither class, or
any class, will ve furnished with passports, who
cannot produce, before sailing, the proofs of good
character for industry and integrity.

To cach family of emigrants, five carreaux * of
fresh and fertile land, capable of growmg all the
fruits and staples of the tropics, will be gratuit-
ously given, on the sole condition that they shall
settle on it and cultivate it, and declare their inten-
tion of becoming citizens of Hayti. To unmarried
men, on similar conditions, two carreaux will be
granted, +

Board and lodging, free of cost, will be furnished
to the emigrants for at least cight days after their
arrival in the jsland,

The government also will find remunerative
work for those of you whose means will not per-
mit you to begin immediately an independent

Emigrants are invited to settle in communities.

Sites for the erection of schools and chapels wiil
be donated by the State, without regard to the re-
ligious belief of the emigrants,

The same protection and civil rights that the
laws pive to Haytians are solemnly guaranteed to
the emigrants.

The fullest religious liberty will be secured to
them; they will never be called on to support the
Roman Catholic Chureh.

No military service will be demanded of them,
excepting that they shall form military companies
and drill themselves once a month.

All the necessary personal effects, machinery and
agricultural instruments introduced by the emi-
grants shall be entered free of duty.

The emigrants shall be at liberty to leave the
country at any moment they please; but those
whose passage shall be patd by government, if
they wish to return before the expiration of three
years, Will be required to refund the money ex-
pended on their account. A contract, fixing tho
amount, will be made with cach emigrant beforo
leaving the continent.

T have been commissioned to superintend the
interests of the emigrants, and charged with tho
entire control of the movement in America, and
all persons, therefore, desiring to avail themselves
ot the invitation and bounty of the Haytian Gov-
ernment are requested to correspond with me.

[shall at once, as directed by the Governnent,
establish a bureau of emigration in Boston, and
publish a Guide Book for the use of those persons
of African or Indian descent who may wish to
make themselves acquainted with the resources of
the country and the disposition of its authorities.

[shall also appoint Agents to visit such com.
munities as may seriously entertain the project of
emigration,

Immediate arrangements, both hero and in
Tlaytiy cones bey nate FUE Ute CAUSED TELE AM SUULO>

ment of one hundred thousand persons.
By order of the Government af the Republic of
Hayti. JAMES REDPATH,
. General Ayent of Emigration.
Rostox, Noy. 3, 1800.

® A carreat is 3 acres and 3} rods.

OIRCULAR.---No. II,
Grsena, Berrau ov EmiGRation, |
Boston, Dee. 17, ISdl.
Burvenux nnd Arents,

The Corresponding and Shipping Burear of Emi-
wration is situated in New York City—remporavily
atdS Beekman street, All letters of inquiry ves-
specting Tayti and the Hay tiv Movement, should
be addressed to me, there, Persons in, New York,
desiring information respecting: [last verbally,
caobtun ic from Leary Melrose, Corresponding
Sveretary there.

The Boston General Ruveate will be situated in
the Wasliieion Building, Roon 7,220 Washington
savet. Miss BE. Howard, (who lived seceral sears
asa missionary in Hayti), will answer all the inqui-
ties of intending emigeuts ia Boston,

The Philudelphia Bureau of Eminvation is now
tunited to the Taytian Consaliate: - Anthracite Build.
ing, corner of Walnut and Second screets, (oon),
Geo. Lawrence, dt, is appotited AetingConmmercist
Agent of Uh for Philadelphia, and Resident
Agent ot Emigradion for Pennsyivania. AW triends
of the Movement, aud persons desirous of emigta-
ting, or ofobtaining che reliable taets af Thuy ti, are
advised toed on him at the Bureau.

The Western Braaeh Rareaie will bo sitnated: at
the residence of Isane N, Cares, at Windser, Canada
West. Al persons inthe Catiulas, Obie, Miehizan,
or fischer Weet Who desive aid fo cuahie them to
reach Che seacboard, will receive it Chrongh) Mr,
Carey, whom they minet satisfy as doo their fitiess
for the pioneer lite which ev emigvant ounht to
be prepared for, He will furnish thea with tichets,
and notify Chent when to sturt, Persons living in
the States should address Ma Cavey ac Dotait,
Box 276, Michigan; but, Cin Cannida, (hey should
aiddress hin ac Windsor.

The Bureans whl ho open from ALM. tos BL
M., every week day,

Piles of the Pine and Bahn willbe kept there,
ether with sth other documents as emigunts
may weed,

‘The tollowlag gentlemen are the authorized Oy:
cling Agents of che Movement:

Kor the Canudas, Ohio, and Mickinan so Way
2 Wathins, Me. Wathins will lective on Thivtl
thavdyg the neat two months, in any partat Nord
crn Ohio, Content Michigan, of die Cinadas, an bes
ies duly notided of a desire to Tear dim, and (hit
prepmations have been made tor his reception, THis
wihdvess wall be, Dotvodt, Michigan.

Simon UE Spencer, whe dias Gaivelled ex cen:
sively in Haye, and deomimicety tunity with heer
notarnl and mineral resources, will visit any tary
tay communities dn the same distrless in whiel Me,
Wiathins will tabors and by callime on titending
onigiants, aC Chebe own hones, with bo enabled to
satisfy them on overy disputed point, Communities
thesia visti from bla should apply to My Catey.

The followiag goatlemen are antharized: Local
Agents:

Mor Maine: Reeves, Porttand,

Mor Mewar! 1 W. Polles,

Nocather perons anv aithorised to aetas Agents,
atl all persons assidig: to do se anne Lnpostors,

Correspondents who wink do write font an any:
thing conmected with The Pine and Tatu, should
ebtress ie, ad dosfo s baton oll subjects con
neeted wlth the Has tlan Movement, af Yew York.

Correspondents showid enclose a three vent post:
aye attiip, fo prepay a detier tua reply ta ein gates:
faoas.

Bilombs aitdresshas ine on persannl pusiiess,
should aonrh ede letters, “poueade and alireet
Utneeee ae Danton.

There are iow noe mere copied of The Guide to
Hard, for gratnitons distobidion; lat tay tan
Papo Nos bo whieth eamtibis a brlet synopsis
af the Guite, will be sone te any address on mecelpt
of thao postings stamp. Phe Cable ean be had of
Gi. Woolworth Colton, (8 Heehinan St, New York,
Wt At eonda for ie Bendgtaata’ Ealldioa, and Sb for
the Cetin Balithon, postage publ,

Hack nanbord of the Pine Malin, ar apecknon
caples of enrtont ixates, will be went, eo, to any
Humillos drtond lig to ondgrate,

Houta Repeaen, Goaerad bend.

Juat Pobtlehed. Collon’y Poodked Mapas the
Island af Hayes. Vila bs dew ater the ' Geta
Map of the Ropabtie at Haste’ whieh fa achnern
odie to be dhe tiost aveniae ever oublistial Ut
inal bage eleo, mul lamdiomely bound. Pace a0
conte. Sent, Nee of postage, too any addices, on
recolphat the above anit,

Aa Coltan’s Mounted Map af (he ishund of
Hayte Tita daa targeted exquinttely: dished
Mapoot Hin ad, on rollers, adapted equally ty the
Outi veo or the parler Pleo B50 ee

Atteer AAWON b YAVUCETY,
Qhant Hecvetary

Ip), 19

wee or eypreaange pak by tho Publier Addeees
 Wootworit Corpor, 1 BReclanan Stet,
Now York

against those detractors of our race who contest ,

, real carefully the
i follow the dircetions therein given, as itis impos-i-

CIRCULAE.---No. II.

NAYTIAN Bureau or ExiGRratioy, |
soston hie, 31, ISL.”

Autyinn Arrangemciuts.
Arrangements will be made by which cmizrants
can sail trom different ports during the autumn sid
winter, Due notice will Le given of the days of
satiny, throuch the columns of Tie Pine and Palm.
Persons desiring to cimigrate are requested to
iveulars of this Burean, aid 36

ble tu provide for the contort of passengers excep:
by insisting ona strict compliance with our rezu.
lations.

I. Lot it be understood, that all who can pay for
their passage are expected todoso; and thata
passage will be advanced to such farmers and fa-
borers only a3 are unable to incet this expense.

If. Atl mechanics who intend to practice their
trades in Hayti, must go at their own expense ; the
Government guarantees to find work for farmers
and laborers only. It will welcome all colored em-
igrants ; but it cannot agree to provide work for
ail classes of mechanics. [t3 demand for avricul-
tural Jabor is unlimited ; but for mechanical skill
this is not the casc.

II. Passengers will be charged at the rate of
$18 cach adult from United Staies ports; from
Canada West,
charged half price ; infants under one year, free.

{V. Passengers, in all cases, must provide their
own belding. Mattresses must be four feet wide.
Each passenger must also be provided with a tin
gallon can for water, atin cup, atin plate, knife and
fork, a few pounds of soap, and towels, with such
extra utensils as may be deemed necessary to hold
the daily rations,

Vv. The amount of baggage allowel to every
passenger is two trunks, or two barrels, or one

$25. Children under eight will be |

OALL FOR EMIGRATION.

_ Men of. our race dispersed in the United States?
‘Your fate, your social position, inatead of aroclior-
ating, daily becomes worse. The chains of thoee
who are slaves are riveted; and rejadice, mors
implacab'e, perhaps, than servitude, parsnes and
crushes dovn the free. Everything is conteated
with us in that country in whick, nevertheless, they
Loast of liberty; they have invented a new a! lavery
for the free, who believed that they had now no
naster3; it is this hamiliating patronage which is
revolting to your hearts, Philanthropy, in spite of
its noble efforis, seems more powerless than ever
to lead your cause to victory, Contemptand hatred
increase ayainst you, and the people of the United
States desire to eject you from its bosom.

Come, then, to us! the doors of Hayti are open
to you. By happy coincidence, which Providence
secs to Lave brought about in your behalf, Hay
has risen from the long debasement in which a
tyrannical government had held her; liberty is re-
stored there. Come and join us; come an bring
to us & contingent of power, of lizht, of labor;
come, and toxether with us, advance our own com-
mon country in prosperity. - We will come by this
means to the aid of the philanthropista who make
buch generous cfforts to break the chains of those
of our brethren who are still in slavery.

Our institutions are liberal. The covernment is

| mild and moderate. Our soil is virgin and rich—

we have large tracts of good land, nearly all uncal-
tivated, which only need intelligent workmen to
tillthem. Everything assures yon in this country
or a happy future. For these among you who
possess Capital, it will be casy to find at once

trunk and one barrel. All freight over that amonut |

will be charged for, separately from the pa:
ticket, at the rate of 75 cents per barrel er 15
per cubie foot from American ports. The amonat
for all overland freight, when advanced by the
Bureau, will be added to the passage money in the
Contract. This is exclusive of the bedding,—which
goes free. All goods must be boxed up.

VI. The board provided for emigrants will he the
nary rations of the United States, minus intoxica-
ing spirits, which will not be allowed in our ves-
sels. The following is the fare:

NAVY RATION FOR EACH DAY OF THE WEEK.

! Pan |
i | 3 poi:
ii o=) 3! a ry! ‘
Days. |) | | ei (fb s ,
Zatlé VSEPEZLES
15 jp. E' ZE5E5;222 2
lEbcp os SSFP SES
Se SaE HORROR APS
oz lb Ib tb 027026202 pt pt pt gl
Sun jWjbi ba oe prod
Mon, Mi 31} zi gpoicl
Tues. (Mili tf 7122 7: 1
Wel, 14! [L: | ee
Thurs. dll! tg Ras: Of aoa
Friday Wii! R222) th) 1
Sat." ld | | 1 ho gd
“SOLA SL Lgl s ULE T 44 Deb be 7

Fmizrants are at liberty to carry, free of expense,
additional provisions to be used on the voyage.
Sltght additions may be made to the nayy rations;

: but the Bureau does not pledze itself to do so.
VIL As efforts have been industriously made by ;

unscrupulous men to misrepresent the conditions
under which emizrants who do not prepay their pas-
sazes, will accept the offers of the Government of
Hayti, it is deemed advisable to publish below,
in full, the contract to be made with them. The
words in italie and within brackets (blank in the
original) are filled up to show precisely the terms
on which a single man can emigrate. It should
be distinctly understood, that no barrier whatever

‘ here all the considerations

place among us. The country offers them imme-
diate resources. They can count on the solicitude
of the Government, and on its special protection.
Our society is ready to adopt them and prepares
for thein a@ fraternal welcome. They will enjoy
that they merit; they

; Will occupy the rank that their respectability as
: signs them—all the things that @ blind and bar-

barous prejudice refuses to them in countries in-
hospitable to our race.

The poorer emizrants shall have the right to all
that their situation demands. The Government
will provide for their first necessities, and will take
the propcr measures to secure to them @ quict and
honorable asylum, as well as to facilitate for them
the means of obtaining employment.

It is very natural that you should ask, before
coming fo an unknown country, what are the
cilities that will be afforded to vou, as well for the
satisfaction of your first needs, as for your defini-
tive settlement. This thought has seriously occa-
pied the Chief of the Republic and his Govern-
ment.

T proceed to stare the determination to which it
has come:

To such of you as are not able to par the ex-

; penses of your passage, aid will be given trom the

public treasury.
Agents, whom I shall presently appoint in the

' United States, will be charged to make the neces-
. Sary arrancements in this respect.

: arr

| Yalized

On their arrival here, the emigrants wl tind
‘Tine cratuitousiy, where, during the first few
ws, thair needs will be provided for.

Goveniment will occgpy itself from this time
with providiag means io offer to cach person, oa
al, either on private estates or the public do-
sufficiently remunenative work.

Every individual, the issue of African blood, may,
immediately on arrival, declare his wish to be raru-
nd after one vear’s residence, he can be
enor Hayd, enjoying all bis civil and

comeac

* political rizhts.

_The emizrants will be exempt from military ser
vice, bui their children, when they are of the
requisite age, shal! be heid io perform the service

‘ conformably to the laws of the country; that is to

will be put to any man’s reuurn, excepting that he ,

shall pay the sum of cizhteen dollars before em-

barking for the United States, if he did not. pay

for his own passage from this country to Haya.

The Government of Hayti, while they will welcome

all visitors, cannot reasonably be expected to pay

their passages. Hence this provision.
The following is the contract with the emigrants
who do not prepay their passages;
Articles of Agreement.

THis AGREEMENT, made and entered into this
[first] day of [January], A.D., 1881, by and
between James Reprati, of Boston, General
Agent of Emigration, on behalf of the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Hayti, and [John
Smith], hate of [ Detroit, Michigan], and an emi-
grant to Haydi;

Witsessetu: That said James Redpath, on be-
half of the Government of Hayti aforesaid,
averees to provile a passage for said [JoAn Smith]
from the port of | Boston] to the port of [St
Mark) in said Hayti, in the [Brig Lami @
Haiti], leaving the port of [Boston] on or about

the [third] day of [-Zanuary}, 1861, upon the
conditions hereafter tollowing, viz:

First, cid [To > SmithT horeby acknowledges the
reevipt of [a] ticket of passage trom said port
of [Boston] to said port of (St. Mark], in Hayti,
and agrees during the term of said voyage to
provide [Ais} own bedding, and the necessary
utensils tor eating and drinking.

Secondly, in consideration of reeviving the passare
aforesaid, said [Joka Sinith} further agrees,
that if he accepts a grant of land trom che Gev-
ernment of Haydi, under the provisions of the
Jaw on Emigration, approved by His Excellency
the President of the Republic of Hayti, Septem
ber 1, 1800, he will repay to the Treasury of the
Republic of Rayti the sum of feighteen| deliars,
American curreney, within [¢Aree years] trom the
date of this contact

Furthermore, that if trom anv cause said [.7oAn
Sniitt |] sees proper to leave Hayti before the ox-
piration of the corm ef Chive years from the daw
of [Ais} arrival in the Island, fle} shall pay the

» to all those of our origin who, throu:

same sufferings.
omar the country is open to them also.

y, fora

limited time, an! by the result of con-
ription. {Par suite du tirage au sort.) This
conception does nor consiinute, in their favor, «
modification of the law on the National Guan, of
which every citizen must form a part.
You will have power, also, freely to exercise
your rlizion. .
Thave spoken here only of the members of the
rican yace, Whe groan in the United Sates more
than elsewhere, by reason of the iznobdle preindics
of color: but our sympathies are equally extended
rout the
world, are bowed down under the weigh: of the
Let them come to us!) The bos-
Trepeat

+ it, they will be able to acquir, either on the pabiie

Treasury of the Republic of Thayti the sim of |

fetvAteen} dollars, American currency, as repay:

thent of expenses incurred by che aeents of the

Government for [Aés} pas

nevertheless, with this express provision: That

if {Ae} does remain thive years in the bsland thom
the date of [Ais] arrival Mervin, and does net
see fit to aceepta grantor kind trom the Govern:
mentor the Republic of Uayei, Pep shall net be
reqnuimd to repay to the Treasury of the Repulic
of Hayti, er any agent of Government thervet,
any sunt whatever om account of) said passage,

Ix Wrrsnss Wisner, the said: parties have
hereunto sec their hands aud: seals dhe day and
ver bare written,

, Los. [Join Seen]

Los, James Reprari,

Vit. Finigniuts must pay theiy expenses (0 the
pert of embarkation.

UX. ‘To nid emigrants who wish too carry extn
baggage, the Barewa will allow chem, (hy shving a
note payable Co Ce Geverament of Hayti,) to tke
stteh (reieht fo the amount of ten dotlars,

X, ‘The Bureau wishes it to bo distinetiy nnder
however, that unless at least dwenty days
is siven of iMtenton to sai, with Che amount
mage to be taken, Iwill nor hold itself vv.
sponsible to seenre a passage for any one.

NL. AU persons desiring information whative 0
the movement, are contially invited correspond
withthe General Brava, er personally to visi ig
The fulesc information will be adonded hem,

XU Usual lenge ot voyage, fom fourteen fo
twenty days. Jamus Rrpra

General Agent af 0

CIROULAR.--No. TY.
Havrian Burnar or Furanarien, t
Boston, August ty, set,
CV Destine Maat.
To ctaents and bitending Baitcrants tand >

Centienen & Tho chief diteulty Qiat has hier
to presented isett in careviing out che pradect af
ermbcration has arisen Que the dec dat colored urn
ors live chiefly ata constderabte distance fronithe
coast, aE ane seldom able to defyay (ho ox pouses
ob rawhing it, Especially does this obstacle present
Asef ae dha case of intending emigrants: rysiding
in the Uritish Provinces aad tho Lake cites, “To
obviate it, various pling lave been tiled, various
schemes have been suggested: but experience ls
shown that choy lave not been adequate to the
Hevessitiea of Cho casa The hist plan suggested,
nod publicly adopted, Erygiet Co ammotnee, mst,
way wlth che others, be abandoned, av too slow,
expensive, amd anectadns Tomer the purpose of
sending veosela ea dhe Tatke: eities or Qo the
porta’ Tovonta, dltvet, to Maye.

Vat by ane arratygenont fust completed, Lai able
to pnaranitee fo pay the ex petised of all such ont:
piiuts as tho Agents of (his Buren may seleetiiud
sniorse, Dom nny down, or station orm the Goat
Western Hailrond in Canada, between Toronto and
Wiser cor fem Dotolt, ‘Poledo, Sandusky,
Cloveland, Erde, or Hndate cat dhe rate of S80 cael
toy autults, chikiwu under eight yeats bath price,
Rider ene year bee, ;

The bagtageatlowed ander this arrangement will
bo od Tha, to eaete adil pasonger  Enigeants ave
nidlvised not to take hotschotd Anadian actuss dhe
cominy, DUE Ge abtadnsaetias thoy wish at New
York or da Hava Feather beds anv not wanted: ia
Havel, bat ombseants will do well to bring empty
ed Hela ane have dhese filed with straw ag New
York, tor choiv berths,

Earlgianta tom plices east of Rudito, dem Benn:
avtvania atid New doesey, and (Yor other hooatities
within 400 niles of New York, ean have dheir dav
fo dat port advanced: dhe amount bedug added to
tho pra GSES) wilely Chey engage (oe ipay te be
Goverment of Havel, aiden the tern ot che cot
tract Choy dict, (Sea Chvular No. HL

Veasobr will val) Gon New York, iv decontinese
With this armagemens, Gaiden che protection of the
Diltish thag.) as efen as may be vequilyed-—Chough
Lewitt bo dinposatble ta dx dhe diatod of walling wow
thi sts oraaver days bororetiand.  Racgeantiy will
rive diida Brean, op (ta Agente natles at eh dine
They WHE be venily, wid choy wit ho wotitled at the
oatllost poasidto thoment, of Cho day of sailing af

the teat Vessel thureanter, Jane Renpar
Ganeray agent.

stood

voto Hays bags

or private estates, fertile lands, where, by che aid
or tnous fabor, they will find that happiness
which, in their actual condition, they cannot hope
Sind.
The man whom God has pointed out with his
finger to elevate the dignity of his race, is found.
The hour of the rejinion of the chBtiren of Hayti

is sounded! Let them bewell convinced that Harti

is the bulwark of their liderty!

Given at the office of the Seeremry of State of the
fnterior, at Port-au-Prince, the SAL of Aususs,
ISB, Sth year of Independence.

The Secretary of Stare of Justice and of woe

. seu par interim, with the portrotio of the
Interior and of Agriculture, FL E. Drsora

LAWS OF EMIGRATION.
1.

Late_on the Emigration into the Country of
Persons of the Aprican and Indian reces. 7
Farner Geerrann, President of Hay,

iy the advice of the Council of the Seemraries of
Sie and the Legistadve Bodies, aner having coa-
sidered and declared the urgeney of it,

Has rendered the following law:

Anticte lL. Ager the promulsanon of the prvs-
ent law, five carreaux of land will be granted, treo
oc alt charse, Co every timily of Iadorers or cula-
yators of the Atvican or Tadian miovs whe shall
arrive in the Republic. This grant will be nueat
two carteaux when the laborer ot cultivacor is un-
niarried,

Arr. dt These grants will be delivered, without
expense, and with a provisional tide, to every fame
Iy that shall have made, Uetors the proper magis-
trate, the declaration prescribed yan with the
view of obtaining natuniization, and they will be
convert into tinal grunts ater a residences of a
year and a day in the country,

Antti The tina gruns will be given in ex-
change for tbe provisional grunts only wher if shall
have been ascertinad by the Goverment agents
that cultivaden das already commenedd on the
property guanted,

Arr UV. ‘the grintes shall not have power to
dispese of Tis grant befor the expinidon of seven
consteutive years of oocupation. Nevertheless, he
wil Be atke te obtain the authority tw exchang:
Vis seaut ier another property, but ently an the
sunditions, terms, and with the powers stove
mand.

The present Taw shall be promptly executat by
the Seereciry of State, of che hutevior, and of Agr
eran,

Given at the National House of Porta-Trines, the

Sith of Soptember, year O7ch of Independence.

The President of the Senate: FL Laceez.
The Seeresurtess Curasriy, JOY. Mexpoza,
Given at the Chamber of Repivsentatives of Port
aUrinee, dre Sth Sopteniber, INO, year AR of
Tadependence.
the President of the Chamber:
W. Cuastarrs.

The Secretaries SO. Tuaenavy, FORM ez,

Ix vars Nas or vis Rereente*

Cho Povsitent of Haydd onlaing Mac the Mrgy-
ins how of tho Legistative Bodies bo stampat with
me seator the Repubhe, publishent and exeonted,
Givett ad dhe National Badace of Porta Prinee, the

GU September, E80, year o7th of Independence.
By orne Pursiprxy: GQEEYRARD,
The Scoretarg of State of Re deterior and of

ayricultire, Fo ds. Josep.
The Jof War and e Marine, ‘UV. Drosore.
The Keeper of tae Seals, Seeredary of Nile of fe

Genendl Police, dhe Laworns.
The See. of State of Justice, eto, POR. Dunora,

The Sees of State of Sinanees, Commerce, and
Exterior Relations, Vy. Persancs.
uw.

Lateon the Vatunalization af Mniyrunis of the
ion and Dadian Nuves.
Fannh Gerreanp:

On the weport of the Seemtary at State of Justice,
and by che advice of the Council of the Sevrearics
af State,

Considering that puompt action is: demanded th
behalf of those Who possess the reqitited qualitica-
tions co become Payton, it onter to enalde tent
with Meility co enter inte the innnediate enjoyment
of the right adached to tatunaliation,

Vavposes the tottowiygs haw:

Aipiern to Aveeto Hot the Civil Code ts mod:
ited as lows: ATE Chose who by vintne of the
Constitition ane able to a rights of Haya:
aecidzens, most, duylng cho dist month of cher
arelval by the county, befor the dustlos of the
Hawe ot thede cestdenos, and de presen at (wo
well Known citizens, nutke adectavation to the chs
(at they come with the ditention of settling di the
Repablio, ‘They will, at tho same tine, heron the
uadloe of the Peace, fake oath) at hey Wwrented
every other countey save Tad,

Are. TE Peovited with the verbal process of
the fideo of the Peace, satding forth: the declare:
tion hat Chey conte Wo xotde de der Roprblig, and
their thing ot the oath, thay will precat thonn
solves vl the oillees of ho Paasitent of Wave t0 te-
eotve ave det Crom the Chile ae che State wee
thom citizens of the Repalitle,

ARYL, Phe present law atitttila atUawe ar prea
Wea whieh are coutnuny to ff, att aball be executed
Wide dlspatele by the Secretary Of State Ce duediow
Given at Ue Natio Dalace at Vartancttice, @

Tih day of AUgROL, RO, the S7ch year oF Cade
ponerse. GREFRARD.

[Phow dollow (ha agree of various omcit,

oi a saa law, Woh ile! We te

———

hast

Pat rie ee

AYE SELES

At present it seems to us that emigration offers preach, travel, and) build chapels, wherever) they
the black man the best opportunity for achieving: They made aimerous converts, and the
Whatever the result of

amingo.”|

‘the destiny ofa tree man.

f y n y have we accomplished? Bat suppose we aid this | dantly, and was afterwards sold in the New York
| Nowers, realizes the delights and riches of poetical | class, and the colored people generally, to locate on | market at fourteen cents per pound. Mr. Harris
| description, the free homesteads offered] by the Haytian Repub- | pertinently adds, a half dozen such men located in

“En aconntry of such magnitude, diversified with | lic, or to settle elsewhere in (he tropics, what will | Hayti, with cotton-gins, etc., will do more in ciggh-
plains of vast extent, and mountains of prodigious | be the results? ‘These two questions arc worth an- | tcen months for their people, than the same num-

éé Bh} YOY if St ql semblance, The sugar cane grows the year round

1 $ . sUy i Brows the year reungd,

pay Vs t we eS and so fist and thick, that by Che tine the lahoves

Z paeetans hes cutover aud eshausted aten acre field, it is)
The corn,

\ pleased.
munber Was atanented by matty of the cmigraats, |

ithe present war, and whatever ifs efleet upon. sta-

LUSTOR NY Ore very, the same prejudices of race must continue, | euder President: Boyer, “The English Westeyans J peady again to ent where he began.
TH E REVOLUTIONS Or tA YTL land it seems hopeless tor him to strugele anitist support four Stations; the English Baptists, one; | which ix cultivated now by simply making a hole hebachit,” says My Elwards, MM. nD FOR.S., in sweriny, ; . _, jber of talkers in a3 many years. Already, foar
: . aus them. Qur school-law in Winois assizns he ook Tad ihe United States, one. There are also two | ithe ground, and dropping in the sced, with no his able work on Uayti, “is probably to be Phe establishment of a colony in the Pacitie (hundred people of color from the State of Lonisi-
— : pored race a. separate education--if they can get Havtian Protest dhurehes farther care or labor, grows to the height of from found every species of soil which Nature lias as. | would certainly (supposing them to be willing to jana, have, accepting the invitation of the Executive
AMAND, and political am. aytii Proteshunt ehitretes, ciht to fifteen fect, having three to five ears to the | signed to all the tropical parts of the carth. In | go) remove the slaves out of the Border States. | of Hayti, located at St. Mark and the valley of the
, some forty miles distant from the capi-

Hany and all the objects of soc ;
bition te which edreation leads its subject ie dook
are forbidden to him. Whenenever we see the

RY M. SAUNT
Advocate, former Member of Cie Coastiqudonsl
Asseubiy of Haye.

Otherwise, the calony would be a good retiring hus. ; Artibonite
pital, for decayed politicians to play governor, cte., | tal of the Republic, Port-au-Prince, and are actively
and afford a station where our navy could get fresh | engaged in the cultivation of cotten and sugar.

ceneral, itis tertile in the bighest degree, every-
where well watered, and) producing almost every
variety of verctauble nature for use and beauty, for

k. The tebacevo, which is cultivated. with as fitte
scientific skill and care, spreads out) the broadest

Up tothe period which witnessed the downfall

of Sonfonque, education in’ Ehaytio was ima most

Rooks "Mhird. -feostiven.]
Translate capressly for The Pine and Palm.

The Assembly of Saint Mark and its President
annexed one condition to the sincerity of their pro-
fessions—a condition not expressed in the letter,
namely, that the National Assembly should accept
the Constitutional bases. Meanwhile, it continued
its system of usurpation, and desired to control
the administration of the Colony, as if clothed with
sovereign power. As far as it was concernee, the
decrees of the National Assembly appeared to have
no existence. Buindly pursuing: the arcomplish-
ment of its designs, it knew not how to conciliate
opposite interests: by personal attacks, if wounded
selt-love, and ruftled irritable natures; and in its
pride, either seorning or not foreseeing the dan
gers of its situation, it did nothing to allay the

tempest which it had raised, not ever observing the lution ef the question—What shall be done fora lc) avat school, a school of medicine, a school 3 ‘5 pogtoe I Statisti we . ,
precautions for the safety of its members, which Ace that now seems doomed to perpetual igno. tien, vnaval school, a school of medicine, a school | ies, An Mr. Redpath 3 Guide, he says: mportant Statistics for Congressmen, characteristics which slavery has introduecd into | cotton, and itis to that end the energies of the
sng snary prudengee de . , vance and inferiority, in the very midst of Aneris | of jurisprudence, a school of music, and asehvolof |‘ Aninhabitant of the temperate zones can hardly naan ali our policy has prevented this. But our neces- | emigrants will be mostly turned. 4
the most ordinary prudence demanded, can civilization ?—Ilinvis Teacher. iautintine. In these establishments are instructed, |¢onecive how rich Hayti is in every specie of vexu- BY MENRY MELROSE. sities may help us te do that which our policy has | Will it not be worth while to aid in the growth z
Suddenly it found itself confronted by a formida- Sheen he State. thirteen thousand | {ble wealth. She has every tree, and trait, and ote hitherto prevented. ‘Take down a map of the Car- | of an African Nationality in the intertropical re- 3
ble coalition, and was obliged to flee. Inits flight, Waytiay Suterixe Bernat or Exacratios, |! the expense of the State, thirteen thousand | Hower of the tropics in her plains; and there is | Compiled for The Palm and Palm, ribean sea, and sec if it is desirable to allow cither | gions of America? Do we not owe something to §
48 Beekman street, New York, Jan. 1, 182 fj pupils. In private schuols, also, Uhere are acon: | nothing that grows in the States orin Can Last week we presented to our readers a statisti- | France or Spain to become masters of the western | the race through whose labor this enormous trade, é
that cannot be suecessfully cultivated on her high- | eat compilation of the exports to Hayti from the | portion of the [sland of Hayti? which has driven mad the Gulf States with the

gnity

ic carried its pretensions along, but lost its ¢

‘faces of colored ehildven looking for Knowiedse or
Sin contrast with the Hale ones of ovr own race, ony
philanthropy leads us Co wist them a separate and
San independent career. We eannot say that its is
best for allo this race who are in eur State to go
to Haydis bat we have no hesitation in ashing evr
readers who may happen to know any enterprising
colored men who desire a better condition than
they cau have here, or men who can be roused to
such an ambition, to call cheiv attention to this
project of eminration, and to assist them in’ enter
ing inte correspondence wilh Mr Redpath, who
will gladly give information and advice. Many a-
cvatmtares and some stance ave olfered ly the
Yastian government. The pamphier which we no-
tice has been sent to every editer in the country,
and we hope that the subject will he browghi to the
notice af the philanthropic cenerally, and that good
will yesult to both the races concerned, My. Red-
path is very zealous in his appeals to the colore:t
men, and very strongly ures the benefits of enii-
eration to them, As cdueationists, the Teacher and
its readers cannot be without an interest: inthe so-

Panigration to Hayti—The next

_petent teachers appointed,
‘girts’ schools, which bad not) previously existed,
vhave been recently established, and are already

{
i
{
ii

+ course of a few years, be direeted and executed by

and sappiest leaves found anywhere inthe Antilles,

cexist 1 National Lyeces, 80 hoys’ primary schools,

neglected condition; bat since the aecession of
Vyesident Geflrard, the most strenmous ineasures
have been taken) to promote it, Old schools have
been restored, many new ones founded, and com
In addition to this,

We

From an official
report, issucd in September last, we learn that

mnakine satiMfactory progress,

Government intends to make the sehools founded
in the rural sections schools for instruction jn aie
culture, ‘The agricultural operations will, in’ the

practical men, and it is expected that it: will pro-
duce the most important results. ‘There already ex-

QL virls’ primary schools, 46 rural schools, a girls’

boarding school for the higher branches of instruc: th

siderable number of pupils of bor sexes,

Other crops indigenous to the climate, grow with
equal rapidity and strength. [tis said that in some
districts. the melon, the pulapkin, and) the squash:
ripen in six weeks
a fertil

So neeess

he required,
containing all the elementary constituents required
to produce
erowths could not be exhausted, even without any -
return to it, for generations.
tains chemselves are the great fertil
Iningo, and will remain so until they are devoured
hy the tooth of time, and sink away indistant ages.

Such a thing as,

from the seed.
r, marticle of such extended traflic, and
sary to the agriculturist here, is not known
w thought of there, nor will it, Papprehend, ever -
The fertility and str 1of the soil,

and mature the varios vegetable
sSesidtes, the moun:

zs of St. Do-

supply the soil ia

’
the valleys, plains, and savanaahs, with abundant
and incessant recruits. ,
tothe husbandman of these latitudes.’

Its fecundity is a unarvel

In soil like this itis almost needless to remark
mit erops of any king can be raised ins any quan-

Land alike of the pine and the palin, of

food and luxury, which the lavish hand of a boun-
tif Providence has bestowed on the richest por-
tion of the globe, In that part: which constituted
the French tecritory, [which now forms the Repub-

‘die of Hayti,p the quantity of unproductive land

bears no manner of proportion to the whole, and
the liberality of Nature was laudably seconded by
the industry of the inhabitants. Until those rava-
res and devastations whieh (have had the painfal
task of recording, deformed and destroyed with
undistinguishing barbarity, both the bounties of
Nature and the Jabors of Art, the possessions of
France in this noble island were considered as the

Garden of Ue West Indies; and for beautiful
ssecnery, richness of soil, salubrity and varicty of
_ ¢limate, they might justly be deemed the Paradise

‘of Khe New World.”
{ woe >

, COMMERCE OF HAYTI WITH THE U. 8.

No. 11.—Port of New York.—[continven.]

We now publish a list of the

meat and vegetables semi-occasionally, For the |
rest, it wonld be a heavy expense without any ade
quate return to the mother-nation,
Now, a3 to the second question, which i3 simply,
shall we aid this Afric-Aincrican to become a power,
or shall we waste ourselves in selfishly abortive at-
tempts, which, like polit measures generally,
have only expediency for their support? Ciearly,
it scems best to aid the whole, rather than a por-
tion. But there are other reasons for sustaining |
an intertropical and Haytian emigration, and these |
are to be found in the position of European gov- |
crnments towards the Antilles, France evidently
hopes that Hayti will seck its protcetion. Spainas
evidently intends, in forcing the annexation of St.
Domingo, ultimately to subjuzate Wayti. Can we
afford this? The natural ally of the Haytians is
the United States—our own commerce with this |
negro Republic is to us the cighth in importance, |
to the Haytian it is the first.

The geographical position of the island also H
makes a friendly relation with the United Srates a |
normal condition of its growth. The abnormal |

How are the intrigues of those powers to recover |

The Haytian journals promise us the first instal-
ment of their labors at an carly date.

Sensible of the prize held out by the exigencies
of the hour, to the industry and energy of the cot-
ton-producing regions, and with the design of ame-
Horating the condition of their people, the states-
men of Hayti have made proffers to the people of
African and Indian descent in North America, to
come over and share with them in the prize now
waiting the hands of industry. The first requisite
of Haytiis labor, Capital flies wherever it can
multiply—thercfore give Haytilabor and skill, and
the rest will follow. The colored people here want
a home, industrial freedom, a national character,
and social position. Hayti offers all. To every in-
dustrious man of family, it offers to advance the
passage money, to find shelter and work on land-
ing, to give to cach head of a family about sixteen
acres of land, and to cach single man about seven;
to all, citizenship at the end of a year, freedom of
religion, free schools, and all the privileges of na-
tive Haytiangs. Much of the land belonging to the
Government, is admirably adapted to the raising of

greed of vain thereby superinduced, was created?

and the advantages of an exceptional position, from SeuN emigrant vessel, the Tinten Aves: t—ee? a lands. au eo ' the ee port of New York. hei : ;
which great profit might have been derived, if it ae a CBeitish), Capt Catis, will sail trom | ip . IPTC 1 the bread-truit and the strawberry, of the gizantic | jiaports which that city receives from Hayti in re- | their American stutvs to be met? Ina simple and | How shall we pay that debt? In no better way
had been more skilful, and animated with a desire ee > New York on or about the 15th of Jane HAYTT AS A FIELD FOR AGRICULTURE. cactus, and the lowly violet, for richness of verdure ‘turn. Like the previous articles we have published, | Nt expensive manner, which will, at the same | than by encouraging the growth of a nation like

: and variety of vegetable products, Hayti is not ¢x- | the returns embrace a period extending over the | tine answer these two questions: ‘What shall be | Hayti. It would, indeed be a measure of poetical

for the public good. In fact, when the Assembly

vary for Port-au-Prince, direct, from whieh port

BY HENRY MELROSE,

celled—perhaps not equalled—by any other coun-
7

first six months of the year 1861; but brief that

gu

done for the negro?” and “Ifow shall we best main- |

justice to see the race trodden under foot here, in
Hayti, rehabilitating themselves with all self-respect

e ; 1 the Provincial res, create] CMustants will be forwarded to Aquin, St. Mark . wo. Y Nay ’ r , J ; :
was nominated, the Provincial Commuttees, created oy Mirasoane, as they prefer, Judeine from the intense heat which prevails in try in the world. space be, it serves to show what an extensive com- | tain the preponderance of American interests and | bilit H
utlsils ‘ prevaus The same authority says that cotton “grows | merce is carried on between the two countrics. ideas upon the American continents? | and energetic forces, taking unto themselves _@ po-

by the clandes.ine vote of the large planters, did
not possess the contidene 2 of the other chisses, with:
out whose knowledge they were formed.

A vessel will sail for AQein, where preparations
‘are being made for an American settlement, about
the tirst of February next,

The Kine Broturns, (British), Capt. Larabee,

the Weat Indies, from one end of the year to anoth-
ey, it might be interred that the Istuid of Tayti is
noexception to the rule. But to draw any such

with
culture wlitever, :
Itdees not grow on bushes, but trees, which pro-

extraordinary — facility, and requires no
[tis of a fine and silky quality.

By glancing st the annexed statisties, which
have been compiled from the Shipping and Com-
mercial List of New York, it will be seen that the
Jargest of the imports is logwood. Of this mate-

Both will be solved in the practical results of a
colored jntertropical emizration, for the present
concentrating its energies in Hayti. Let the
Federal Government enter into diplomatic ar-

sition among the nations of America, while the
oppressor flies off into chaotic ruin and disorder.
Yet such isthe picture now presenting itself :0
those who observe the times we live in.

TROPA ERE

Vo

Seer tes

The executive power, in permiting its anti-revos | will probably return to New York about the Wh fo | Ve cemipeane . duce uwo crops annually, and lasts: several years. T ; ; i
lntionary tendencies to be discovered, had already ‘of February, and be ready to. sailom the 2oth oa | ference would be utterly CTTORCOUS, Phe climate {tis culture initht be made exceedingly profitable, { rial the port of New York alone imporced, during | rangements with the Government of President} But how can the people of these Northern States é
lost a part of its authority, and nearly all its pres- : February. ; in most respects is one of the most delightful jn the | as no country is better adapted for its growth.” the short time we have mentioned, nearly ten and Geffrard; and fet both it and the loyal State Gov- | aid in the Haytian-African movement? is the ques- Pa

. . . + The Josrri Grice (Jritish), Capt. Jackson, | world: and althowzh at certain seasons of the year Fur coffee the soil of Hayti is admirably adapted, | @ quarter million of pounds. Of coffee, the im- | ernments aid the negroes who may, of their own | tion asked by the practical man. The answer will B.

, ‘ . yolttion, clect to go—both of the Border, slave, and ; soon become apparent. The Haytian Government %

tige: the parties which were formed at first were
unanimous in recognizing the necessity for a cene-
tal assembly which, operating above them, would
save chem fiom their own excesses; they were all
ready, even the men of color, to submit to its su-
But the As-

premacy, but within Inwful limits.

will probably return about the Ist of March, and
sail about the 10th of that month.

The Herex Avausta, (British), Capt. Cutty
will probably return about the 1th of Mareh, an

All persons Qesiring to sailatany of these date:

the thermometer stands at a pretty high altitude,
the heat generally is tempered by a number of
local causes, to a moderate deeree. That its tem-
perature is mach less ardent: than in sume of the
neighboring islands, cannot be doubted, and the
is owing Inve been accounted

eauses to Which this

and in the highlands it flourishes with the wonost
hauxuriance,
December and January, and in the month of May
a second crop, called “wrapillage,” is also gathered,
“This plant,” says the Hnytian Guide, ‘it properly,
cultivated,—one plant for every ten feet, or 1,225
Dushes per carreau,—reckoning four pounds for
each tree annually (the minimum result) every

The principal crop is gathered in

ports for the same period were close upon twenty
thousand: bags; and of cotton they were 13,669
bales. Lignumvite also forms a large item in the
account, and of this the imports amount to 195,655
pounds. The quantity of mahogany was 536 logs
and 27 packages, and that of Brazilwood and
Braziletto wood to 12,000 pounds. The importa-
tion of tobacco was comparatively small, being

free States—in reaching Hayti and accepting the
gencrous cift of its Government. The United
States by this action will gain—what? The aho-
liticn of slavery in the Border States; a free home
and protection fora population now felt to bea

do not ask the aid of this, or any other country, in
the transportation of the free lahor which now
secks their shores. But they do ask,3¢hat only
pro-stavery policy has hitherto denied, viz: a
recognition of their nationality by the Unized States.

source of disquictude; the growth of a friendly

All other nations have done so, and it is to be

people, which, whether we will or no, is destined | hoped that the incoming Republican Administra-
to become a power in the future; and, lastly, ! tion will remedy this wrong. A commercial treaty

sembly of Saint Mark, instead of making itself the : : : anaes ° Ole .
. tial arbiter of the wishes of all wae I are requested to vive carly notice, personally arb fur in various ways. Perhaps it is owing not so | carreau which thus produce 4,900 pounds of coffee. | only 121 cases and 2} tierces; but this by no means ae . ; c 3 ETE : :
MPRA ATO HE e wishes of all, was only the Jerer, to James Redpath, General Agent, Elaytia | ‘ This crop, soll at the annual average rate of 125 | represents all that is raised in that country. The | place an effective barrier to the hopes of France, , and diplomatic relations between the United States

: number .of hides was 1615. There was, also, a | and by both the moral and material aid given to | and Hayti, are measures dictated by the highest S

mouwth-pieee of one party, and the instrument of
its cr:minal projects.

The deeree on consutuiional bases had been pre-
ceded by two other important decrees; that of May
Mth, on the organization of the Judiciary, and
that of May 20th, on the organization of
patitics. The Assembly of Salat Mark, by another
decree of May 20th, had inere I the already imn-
poriant powers of the Muni i
tended thein to nearly every object of police super.

ot Bal a

os,

vision; it clothed them with still creater authority .

Munici- ,

Te had ex. ,

Bureanof Emigration, New York: or George Law
rence, Jr, Room 8, Anthracite Building, Philade
phias or, if they live in Canada, to [saae N. Car
atthe Western Branch Burean, Windsor, Q. W., i
order that pas s for them may be secured i
advance. HrEsxny Minrosn,
Corresponding Sceretary.

Maytinn Bavean Department

BOSTON, SATURDAY, JAN. 4, 1st:

Dare, that, owing
j mountain chains, the surcharged clouds are arrest-

| the air; and that, owing to the lofty mountain

much to one cause, but toa variety of causes, all
converging to the same focus, and all contributing
to accomplish the saineend, The reasons assizned
to the altitude of its extensive

cd in their course, and condensed into rain; that,
owing to the solar inflacnee, the numerous streams
and rivers which flow through its plains perpetual-
Iy undergo evaporation, Which refreshes and cools { ¢

ranges beit
ereen forests of uinbrageous tre

i covered to their stunmmiis with evered
s, the undulation

andy than in the most fertile districts of Lonisia
It frequently attains 2 height of from 18 to 24 fcet,-
and on some occasions a-diameter of from four to

courdes (a gourde is generally of the value of ciht
and a quarter cents) per 100 pounds, would pro-
duce a revenue of 6,195 gourdes, or 3171 per
annum,
(between 15 and 16 acres) of land to each family of
emigrants, the revenue thus placed within the reach
of every industrious man of African descent, after |
nresidence of two or three years, may easily be
estimated by them.”

As the Republic will give five carreanx

Another of the staples of Hayti, is the suzar-

ane; and in Wayti it seems to grow more lixuri-

Ana,

considerable-number of skins; but as they were

received in various kinds of packages, it is scarcely
possible to classify them properly. The other im-
ports consist of honey, beeswax, cotton yarn,
isyrup, cocoa, wool, Jiznumvite-gine, balsam, &e.,
but they do not call for any particular notice. To
the statesinan, however, they present an interest-
ing study, as showing the commercia) relationship
which exists between Hayti and the United States,
and may be the means of guiding him to’a_ saitis-
factory conclusion with regaid to the measure for
the recognition of the former country, now under
consideration by a Congressional Committee.
It may be necessary to state that the returns are

It is esssential in discussing ‘What shall be done
for the negro?” to consider the steady and rapid
growth of this important population, whose basic
‘element is the African, and to ask how states-
men can best deal with the present, so as to make
the tendencies and the inevitabilities of the future
work both for our national benefit, and to promote
that broad idea of human brotherhood which shall
yet, on this continent, be xrandly illustrated by
elorious results.

Senator Doolittle, of Wisconsin, once said “that
the African was the only other positive race be-
sides the Saxon on these continents.” Frederick

‘est. The trade between the two nations is worth
more to the United Siates than that of the latter
with al! the German States and Spanish American
Republics put together. It might be almost indeti-
nitely expanded.
We owe something to the colored people them-
selves. The highest considerations of philanthropy
and justice demand that the weight of our influence
shall be given to measures which commend them-
selves to both races. Made slaves by the South,
trodden down and despised by the masses at the
North, the Anglo-African has, year by year, been
more eagerly looking towards emigration as a means

Hayti render abortive the desiuns of Spain. | demands of international justice and of self-inter- ,

over the troops of the Hne, scafariug men, and | “VAPRO OOD TIT WAVIspe yp eae ge te tive inches. When once ‘planted, the sugar-cane
5 . y ‘ - y : ‘iv toliage caused by the pz © breeze, - . . pu , * sc sey -pare A A Sent re : ae
Maritime commerce. i NOTES OF Jd I MOVEMENT, ul their’ tollage ea jniltueaee toon the smiroundine “yequites no further care, except to be cut down | mude up to the end of each week. Douglass, more than seven years ago, in speaking | of benefitting both his material and civil surround- ih
The Governor-General refused to sanction and to | Haytian Brreav or Emigration, 2 atmosphere, and extends it to the plaing below, Be | When it reaches maturity, As soon as cut it begins , Jan. 5, of the disabilities lin hich is poopie had to on mite The Southern. States are driving jrom their :
, : : Se! Boston, Jan. 4, 1882. § that as it may, the fact that the climate of Hayti is | © Sprout. again; and for at least ten years no re-4 roo aod ths, ...259.100 Mahogany, lozs , jcounter, and alluding to the efforts at African | midst a large class of skilled and Indusirious labor- :
enforce these decrees, but the Assembly of Saint, Mr. Sherman T. White. C + healthice than the climate of anv of the neighbor. | Pkunting is necessary, A carreau of land, planted Oz WOO, Ibs... 209,10 ahogany, logs....-..9 | colonization, said: ers—the free people of color. In this strait the &
Mark, disregarding his refusal, caused the decree | 7 MT Sherman T. White, Geneva, N.Y., ar | healer Cran tre climate of any ot the neighbor: | vin cane, will produce, on an: average, 9,000 Ibs. | Cote, bags... 1558 “Americans should remember that there are al- | Haytian Emigration Movement comes in with great
relative to the Municipalities to be ex re’ ounces bis determination to emizrate to Hay — | 1 islands is one which cannot be denied. .— lofraw suear.” a oe . Jan, 12, realy on this continent, and in the adjacent | force. Practical men of all shades of Anti-slavery
relative to the Municipalities to he executed in , this month ; . An the Western, Northern, and Southern dis- pevenenaenln . ee Loawood, Ibs. .1,033,230 Ci bal 1,604 | islands, all of 12,370,000 negroes, who only wait! opinion must be favorable to a measure of this
several parishes, [attached a special importanee 12/8 MOBTD. _ a tricts of Hayti, there are stated to be four seasons, | Indigo grows spontaneously, in every direction, Colfte. b ashy 1938 Your bate Seedy i | for the life-giving and organizing power of intelli-| kind. The politician and publicist, having to deal
to the orzanization of the Municipalities, Leeause —The brig J.0. Reviere, from Hayti, arrived u but in reality, there are only three,—two wet sca- | and yields two crops a year. It was largely, ex- ot ce, bags. seen eel we arn, bales..........° cence to mould them into one: body, and into a | with men and evils as they are mist reeimize in -
eon ee eee ee cctntgte ned pee tee ste the city, on the 24 inst, with the loss of for | sens, and one dry season. in tie Western Depart- | ported in the time of the French oceupation of St, | Brazilwood, Ibs. ..3,890  Specie........ +. .-38,000 powerful nation . ~~ ita large measure of practical statesmanship. Econ-
Hi counted on their support, and hoped to make mast , ment the first rainy season commences in Febra- | Domingo, but itis now quite uncultivated. Yet Jan. 18. God does not permit twelve millions of his crea- omists, capitalists manufacturers, must hail a i
them instrumental in furthering its designs, ary, and continues until April. During these | 10 -branch of agricultural industry would rewrn a | Corton, bales........682 Coffee, bags........1055 | tures to Hive without the notice of his eye, That | movement which alike seems to litt up a down- a
i

The Assoubly of the North, prior to the forma-

tion of the General Asscmibiy, had invested] the

—Mr. 8. J. Baptist, who emigrated from Lewi
town, Pa., in October hast, writes to his son in th:

months, more or less rain falls every day. The
month of May ushers inthe dry season, which con-
tinues unl about the middle of August, and is the

larger protit. - It is believed that without entrench-
ing on the other staples, the planters of Ilayti
could furnish two millions of dollars’ worth of in-

Tobacco, cases.......76
hides... 0.606.000 6. 20
Tallow, bbl...........2

Mahogany, p
-Honey, demijohns....-4

this vast people are tending to one point on this
continent, is nor without significance. All things
are possible wich God. Let not the colored man

trodden race, and to open fields for the supplying
of that indispensable staple, upon the culture and
manefacture of which such enormous individual

weg . : “as place as follows: : ad : ° Fs 3 i
City of the Cape with municipal powers. The Mu- -* St. Manx, Havti, Nov. 7, 1831.—My Dear Son + | Hottest part of the year. The rainy period: returns digo per annum, to either the American oF) geoswax, tierce. ......1 despair, then. Let him remember that a home, a | wealth and national prosperity has been created.
OT MABRY PAST, NON. Cy ov lly de 20" about the end of August and Jasts until about the | Enropean markets. : Jan. 26 country, a nationality, are all attainable this sideof | All of the statements made at the close of Mr.

nicipality of the Cape was the tirst in the Colony; |

This leaves us all in eood health, with one e:

Rice, of excellént quality, is. cultivated on a

Liberia.”

Squier’s letter relative to Central America will ap-

on - oe . i iddle of October, A comparatively cool season P
nominated by the districts, and s¢ sixty ! ception aris Thomas, w as li: midi The hh aan roe “lor imited s j iney adv. vO j 5 yD
warty at iS, and composed of sixty slet an On ih fe 1. Ehomas, w hows hat | then succeeds, and by Europeans this is considered | limited scate, but with pecuniacy advantage to the | Logwood, Ibs. .1,091,050 Honey, bbls... «...+.38 | “rhe totat named by Mr. Douglass, is much under- ply to Hayti, and in fact the latter must necessari-
members, nearly all pariisans of the Assembly of Siht touch or the fever... ¢ had the most delizhttul season. of the year. grower, This plant might be raised in niuch | Brazilwood........9,000 Cotton, bales........-68 | stored, The inerease alone in the United States to | ly be embraced therein. Cannot aid be extended

Saint Mark, it was necessarily hostile 10 the’ As-

sembly of the North,

The Assegnbly of Saint Mark, in its decree rela- |
tive io the Judiciary, had forbidden the joint exer- :

cise of the fanctions of judze and those of deputy
to the Colonial Assembly.

Danzy and Larchevesque-Thiband finding them
selves ineapaciiated by this rule, the first hy his

. 1

office of attorney-gencrar, ana o.

the cecand by thar |

pleasant sail trom New York. We lett that ports
the 22d of October, and arrived in sizht of land ¢
‘the 30:h. We wot into port (St. Mark} on the ¢
or the present month—all in ood heart, and
our rations as svon as we landed. Fur wife at
self, and six children, [ wet 26 Haytian dollars: t
Esther and Mary five dollars cach; and for Oliv:
and wite, five dollars ench, making in all 48 dolla
ver day,

{only want you to know that we arrived he
safe within 12 days, and had a goad captain ar
crew to deal with. When T get inte the counn

Vt set tas Woe all shanti

Some idca of the temperature of Hayti may be
vleaned from the following statement published by
Dr. W. G. Smith of Port-au-Prince. °

“At Port-au-Prince,” the Doctor says, “the ther:
momieter, during the’hottest season, from 10 A.M.
to 2. M., stands, in the shade, at a inaximum
heat of VS? Fahy; during the same period it stands
in the stn, ata height of 120° to 121°. [te should
be remembered, however, that it is only in the city | 4
where this heat prevails. . Out of town on the
plains, it is several degrees less, ind is consequent:
Jy much more agreeable, At Grand Fond,” says

attention, but is

larger qnantities, aud would prove a fertile souree
of income to both the producer and the govern-
ment.

For the’cultivdtion of tobacco there is every fa-

cility, but hitherto it has been treated with neulect.
Hayti has produ-ed tobacco equal in quality to
that of Cuba, ana “ould emigrants enter into this
branch of agricul re, it cannot fait to return them

on their capital and labor.

the ‘valleys and requires little
drofitable export.
Ginger, also, gn ws in great abundance, and with

large per cents
Cocoa grows -

due care might i simade a lucrative article of ex-

Mahogany, logs.....323 Turtleshell, cases......3
Coffee, bags.,.....4% .
fous Feb, 2,

‘Lozwood, lis.....50,890 Coffee, bags.........870

- Feb. 9.0
120,000 Hides, cases
..994 Skins, box.......
Coffee, bags.........700 Merchandise, bbl.
Tobacco, cases.......14
. Feb. 16.—No returns.
Feb, 23.

Logwaod, lis
Corton, bales.

these figures, as shown by the late census, will be
over halt'a million, There cannot now be less than
thirteen and a half million persons of African o7i-
gin, on American soil. Four and a half millions
are located in temperate North America. Of that
number, two and a half millions are in the semi-
tropical or Gulf States. Their number is being
largely inereased by the removal of slaves from the
Border States. The remaining nine millions are
found within the States and islands forming the
American equatorial region, including Brazil in the
South and Cuba in the North. This Afric-Ameri-
can population forms at least one-third of the

to the emigration now enlisting the attention of the
cotored people among us? Not in the spirit of
prejudice or antagonism, but in that of a wise and
Christian public polity as well as of sagacious and
comprehensive enerzy, asking to build up a neces-
sary culture where it will not be subject to the or-
panic derangement incident to a system of slave
ador.

Or several ways of aiding this movement, the
writer suggests two:

First, The recognition, by this country, of the
nationality of Hayti, and the entering iato diplo-
matie and commercial relations with that Republic.

- oe : ir resi f those Tsee my aaa a wie vor Ne Smith “whieh is sity S. E., distant but ya,
of counsellor, tendered their resignation of those : anc 3 ; 7 denn 33 . ye Samad Ws 21, dist ¢ . ‘ , . . . :
~ Get ar : Flight 230 e ¥ ree OF fUUT ‘s? ride Semuital. the ther. | purt. Logwood, tbs. .1,510,150 Skins eee Gb A H es paar . . eee

. Lose Asse : Sa Mark | We had on board of the Flight 230 emigrant three or four hours’ ride {F Cavite te . . . Es) > + 1,510, INS... 6 ee eee eee ee OL | hole, ¥ ‘ands 3 nearly = will ce < 5 endly
two offices; but the Assembly ol Saint Mark i That was the only thing we had to complain of, mometer, in July, will mark 597 or 60° at 6 o’clock Taran 9 extensively cultivated, and is | Cotton, bales... -.,2,328 Skins, hhds..........71 vhole. In the tropical islands, it forms nearly This will call public attention, establish frien ¥
exempting tt he J 7 . ee white fenal 2 owy, 2 : ? salty: . ae : ram : 1OF 2 ee . three-fourths of the whole population. The Guif | fecling, and cause capital to seek channels in that

passed a decree cxeinpiing them from te ope-.’ we were so crowded. We had five white femal | 4. M., and 12 M. to 2 P. M., 72° to 78° maximum, | generally vod prices. . Cofiee, bag -+,35 Beeswax, vox,.....---1 | Tslands have about three millions and a half inhabi- | direction
‘with their colored husbands, and two white mc From the end of October, during the rest of the} Maniec is easily raised, is one of the | Hides... cree ws tants, of whom over two millions and a half axe of | Second, the organization in the Northern States

ration of the rule, basing its action upon the
patriotism and devotion of those deputies.

The Assembly of the North, on its part, protest-
el avtainst the Judiciary decree, and refused to pro-
mulgate it within its jurisdiction. Its resolution
ars date May 17th, in which itlays down the

of representatives; “that according to the terms

‘with their colored wives. Weare lodging in or :
jof the big stone buildings, with a wall around i,
as biz asa goal. [thas been in its day a splend’
building for holding slaves. The friends in S
Mark are past describing. [ want you to ¢
: ready and come out as soon as you can ; but whe
you come pack up all your things and) bring the

tabout this place,

year, and up to the following month of April, the
thermometrical range in the shade, from 10 A. M.
to3 P.M., is 85° to%0° maximum; in the sun,
110° to 115° Fahrenheit.” :
In the Northern Department, the chief! town of
which is Cape Haytian, there are, strictly speak-
ing, only two scasons,—the wet and the dry. The

most prod
eare were best’ ved upon its cultivation, it would
soon become ¢
productions.

cu. -lants on the island, and if proper

:of the most lucrative of Haytian

The Palma Christi, (from whose berries castor

oil is obtained,) pepper, and pimentum could also
be cultivated with great advantage,

Arrow roct is almost negiceted, yet no plant

bananas, plantains, mangoes, pineapples, would

: . March 2.
Logwood, ibs....401,250 Syrup, bbl............1
Cotton, Dales.....:.95L Specic.. +» -$2,000
Spirits, bbls...¢.......2

uo Mareh 9,
Honey, bbis..........15
Rags ca:

. 100

negro descent.
slave, the remainder being tree, and surely, thou,
slowly, growing in wealth and intelligence. Sup

pose we assist the slaves from the Border States to
migrate to Hayti, and afterwards extend our pro-
tection over, and foster the rising nationality, will
not the results be beneticial? Shall we not link to
us the future of that race, of which the Republic

dme, we shall do an ace of justice, aid our own

About a half million of Grese are of

ssociations to aid the colored people who may
» desire to emigrate, in reaching the port of eniivarks-
tion, where the Agent of the Haytian Government
will take charge of their interests. These associa.
tions may be composed of citizens, or the States,
by action of their Legislatures, may aid in this be
neficent movement. The people of color are not
rich, and the aiding of them to reach their port of

ciple that legislation is a delegated power of :along. There willbe a great many letters sent + | yainy months ave December, January, March, and 1 . i
e eehitee a <n -| . a ne . 7 cay AG . ic ™ ear cane ; anene t aa solo .erow - o “CESS .) . Sen 5 a . rary are - soy ys i

ty which can only reside in an assembly | the States, so Ut | need at Fa in xreat ae April, ‘The dry season commences in May and is cour fhe he with vole amd anees, citrons Cottce, bags.,..-.-1,585 Tron, pkg: of Hayti is the germ, and thus make with it acom- | departure, and in furnishing them with implements —*

ut let this suflice—Lam glad t | continued until the rainy season azain sets in. In ruits there is noend; and oranges, citrons, | Liznumyit, lbs. .68,000 -Lignumyit: mon, though not vclashing destiny. At the same | necessary for their use, will be work worthy of all ms

who desire the progress and the redemption of the

wnat camehere 600. . ee this Departinent, the highest range of temperature Mahogany, logs...

he decree of the National Assembly of March Seaates eae , oe naanee ~ | votuen re prative prices if oe shippe ve eeeness . . . . .
of t Fe Ganetal Assembly of the French part of | ¢ , oceurs during the mouth of August, when the heat | return ete United 5 they cou be shipped . March 16. material and moral progress, inerease the sphere of | race from poverty, slavery aud ignorance.
8th, the General Assembly of the French part of | EDUCATION AND RELIGION IN HAYT | is not tempered by the wind. At this period, the |i steamers to t re nited § tates; ut unti t ts is Loewood, ths....121,000 Yarn/bates.... free labor, harness the wealth of the tropics to our Yours taithrally,
Saint Domingo ought not, and could not modify, eae thermometer stands, in the shade, from 1} A, M, | Aecomplished—and Vishe understanc _ HC We | Collee,-bazs a0) Hides... .. » {continental development, and at the same time, A FRIEND OF THE Bracks.

se decrees of the National Assembly whieh ap: | - nexny 20S to2 P.M.,at 85? tuy2?, In the plains, however, | Shortly be accomplished—the most of the crop | noon ee 06° Merchandis 3 |g | While looking to those future results, bar, both for
those decrees oF the Aa . BY HESRY MELROSE, the temperature is much less, and on the more cle: | Must Ko to waste. Fruits for preserves could also ODACCO, CHSC 1” Merchandise, cases. .. the present and the futtre, the intervention of Eu:

‘ rt ° ny Cotton, bales......1,572 Specie...........82,000 esent and the e, The Interve "
, , P ae HAYTIAN MELODIES,

plied to the Colony, either as to the organization of

Tt is one of the most melancholy facts in the a

vated parts of the island, itsinks still lower,

be raised in any quantities, and, at some fature
day, an extensive trade may be carried on in this

Mareh 23.

ropean traditions and policies, with the prozress of
a distinet and expanding American civilization.

A Ballad of Hayti.

administrative bodies, or loral police; Unat it had | ae es fu the Southern department, of which the prin- 5 :
no power ty procure the provisory promulgation + uals of some of the oldest monarchies in Euro) | cipattown is Aux Cayes, the rainy season sets in | briach of commerce alone. . _ __ | Log wood, lls... .212,000 Cottee, sacks....... .200 To the writer, these things seem possible results °
Hitherto, we have spoken only of productions | Cotton, bales........773 Hides........0..06.c13E fota well sustained plan of tropical emigration, [TRANSLATED FROM THES CREOLE OF THAT ISLAND.]

and enforzement of such modifications without
first soliciting the sanction of the Governor-Gene-
Moreover, it declares “that adopting the de-
mbly of March sth as the
its conduct it will cause an ad-

ral,”
cree of the Nation
invariable rule of
dress to be presented to the General Assembly of

the French part of Saint Domings, praying that it

wlopt the same principles.”

‘that their Ecclesiastical {listory is one of the blac
est records Whieh it is) possible to read. Bigot
intolerance, and superstition, united with cract

‘ofthe most ferocicus deseription, employed 0

istake, the rack and the gallows, to) drive out fr
thought from the minds of every one who yn

ferred to worship the Supreme Being according
ithe dictates of his heart, and to ty to make ¢

in May, and continues until July. ‘The dry season
lasts during Augustand September, and during the
remnainder of the year, the temperature is) salubri-
ous and cool tpon the sca coast, and is even more
sven the plains.

From these observations, it will be seen that
Hayti enjoys every advantage which a tropical sun
can confer on any country, and as the soil is ad-
inivably adapled for raising productions of the
finest quality, all that is required is a suflicient
nupber of cmigrants to develop her natural re-

cultivated with the utmost fh ‘
quality, Among them, we may entuimerate—plan-
tains, bananas, cocowntuts, sweet potatoes, Trish
potatoes
ones, asparagus, bread-froit, vegetable butter,
veeetable soap, apples, pineapples, strawberries,

which are exclusively tropical, and we now turn
our attention to those vegetables and fruits which
are more exclusively adapted to domestic use.
‘hey form a very large list, and ail of them ean be

y, and of the finest

yams, artichokes, egg-plants, manyoes,

March 30.
Logzwood, Ibs. .1,197,500 ides, cases........580
Braziletto§wood,tbs.2000 Skins, buls.....
Lignunwvite..,. 121,000 Cotton yarn, bales
Coffee, bags.........745 Tallow, tes.
Cotton, bales. .....2,0607 Beeswax, DDE.
Honey, bbls.........U5 Wool, bale..... .
Tobaceo, cases.......11 Syrup, Dbis...........

April 6.

wee

while but very partial results will flow from a plan
such as proposed by the letter which suggested this
reply,

see

The Republic of Hayti and the Cotton Supply.
To the Editor of the Providence Journal:

The valuable Jetter of the Hon, EL G. Squier
upon the “Sources of Cotton supply,’ will un-

When [ first gazed on Zizi,
Ah! what pleasure it was for me!
Such as naught else eer can be!
Tinted is she like the rose;
Call me frantic,—she’s the cause.
Zizi hath an angel's mein:
Buta heart of flint, Tween,
Beats beneath her bosom ’s skeen.

Zizi! oh! T pray, Zizi!

Tie districts of the Cape and several parishes of men think alike; unt Mle everad successive ae sonrees, Mr, W. 8, Courtenay, in his work on the blackherries, mulberries, peaches, grapes, carrots, | Lowwood, Tis. .1,201,805 Honey, bbls..........50 doubtedly, as it deserves to, attract much atren- . :
of this insane policy--after the bloud of thousan: Gold Fields of St. Domingo) thus describes the cabbages, radishes, pumpkins, beets, onions, celery, | Coffee, bags.......0479 Ligmunyine, lbs...6,055 | tion, The writer does not uadertake to dispute Sing no songs of love to me;—
6 or ditter with that centdeman in regard to the posi- Cwould inerease my misery.

‘orth adhered to this decree,
ceverthele.s, Whilst protesting against the dudi-
deerce, the Asstinbly of the North took ad.
cof the resignation teudered by the two
deputies Daugy and Larchevesque-Thibaud, and
y Wiving one
ofthem to Couttde Montaran, a merber of the
Aseambly of the North, aud that, before the deerce
of exemption in fayerot the two resizing mein.
The constiotional dec

made haste to dispose of their places

bers, had been pissed.

had been poured out to sustain a cause which w.
truly iifernal—atter martyr-fires lad blazed in i
result’

the principal cities—what has been the

' Are those countries placed on the very pinnacle « *

prosperity ?-~their arts, their science, their con -
,nerce flourishing inan uncxampled degree, a
“their people in the enjoyment of every earth’
blessing? By noo means. Attemnpred coercion i
Simatters pertaining to religion is Wie most cllectu

soils

“The soil of the Island of St Domingo is conste
tated of the deAres of the mountains and hills, and
the decayed vegetation of past ages. When we
reflect that these prodigious mountains differ re-
markadly and essentiuly in heir geographical con- | a
stituents, and that the contrast. is) truly striking, | a
sometimes between mountains and even hills in ||
juxtaposition, ii wilh appear how endless would be |‘
the task of speaking detinitely and) particularly of
of all the various Kinds of soil that are tobe found
onthe ishind. The soilof the valleys, slopes, sand

which are well adapted for purvoses of utility

possibility, but we shall mention a few,
among them, are logwood and mahorany.

mint, parsley, clover, and turnips,

Add to these the names of nearly every herb

mientioned in tke pharmacopeia, and of extensive
forests of valuable trees of various hinds,--all of

’
nd a faint idea may be formed 6f the numerous
dvantives which are held out to the emigrant to
luyti, from these branches of commerce alone,
‘o chumerate all of thesn, would be an utter im.
Principal
Both

woods are alrendy extensively exported,

310)
3.—No returns.
Apvil 20.
Logwood, Ibs. ...123,000
April W.
27H Cocoa, Dags..........58
22,305
Week ending May <1.
Logwood, Ibs... 500,000
Cotlee, Days... 02... U28) Skins,
Corton, bale oA,713

Honey, ja

Lozwoud, tbs...
Colles, ba;

tions assumed relative to Cenival America. On
the contrary, he is a firm believer in the views
enunciated by him, The object of this conmani-
cation is to ealb attention to a point overlooked in
the resume of the cotton-producing regions of this
continent, and also to awaken a practical interest
in the efforts for progress ot a portion of that race
whieh with us ave either parias or slaves.

The island of Hayti, second of the great Autil-
les, is to-day in the possession of and governed by
a nation of Atriean origin, the descendants of the
of the Freneh and Spanish colonists.

War as spectre trom the gnive,
Spirit-breken as a stave,
As beneath my woes Ubdend,
Death would come, a welesme friend,
AU my agonies to end,

The Haytian National Hymn.

[FROM THE FRENCH OF TERE]

Too long upon the Universe, |
Fell Tyranny hath laid its chain:
Europe and Asia teet the curse,

yALage G6 ays age vase) j S interval dane Deter’ a State to utter rain, phvsie: : . . for ' ‘ :
of May 25th having been passed in the interval, puacthod of bringing # Beate to wtt .. payete plains, partuking of the characteristics of the hills pas Government: explorations live ex- Syrup, bbls AT former slave eh Ic Am Atrie’s sons in bonds complain.
ily, morally, and intellectually; and itis an and wud inomaitains on, ber beside, and: betwixt | tended, che supply appears to be inexhaustible, ICT Beeswax... i.e... EY For sixty years, (ater winning the right to it by a Bur Hayti, prond in martial worth,
torrible struggle, (the Haytians lave maintained °

the Assembly of the North protested anew against
thi: deerce, and: denounced it in all the parishes
within its jurisdiction, by @ resolution passed June
Ist, 485 being an assumption of sovercignty incon
snd political position of

patible with the matura
the: Colony, and as contrary to the wisdom and
authority of the National Asscmbly’s deerce of
March Sth.
[70 LE CUaTIathy.)

twres

A Guipy. 10 Hayat, Udited by James Red-

! .
“hiable fiet Wat those Baropean vote whe
gions perseemtions have take

Hthe most cruel re
place, are, at the present day, those which at
Invst deeply sunk in degradation, and whieh as
‘of no account in the polidecal, the commercial tt
literary, or Ube scientific world,

( ‘To the last day of recorded time, they will stan
basa warning to the rulers of all new States; an
owe are vlad to see that the Rulers of the Havta
Repubhe have profited hy their fate, Tnatead ¢

which they are found, varies as they vary. En one
phice, we find arieh, vesetable mould; in another,
awomixtare of this mould with pebbles and sand; in
another, ao Tight, loose, spongy lowms in
other, a loose amarky in another, a clayey mit;
in another, a soil formed of dissolved) or pttver-
ized coral aud shells; and in another, of pure clay
orsamd. dtdifers, also, in color and depth, as
much ous it differs in constinvion and quality.
Sometimes it is yellow, though sill retaining its
productive qualities; sometimes it is red, sonte-
tines ofa blneish cast, sometimes of dark, maddy,
or hiva color; but tnast penerally itis black, and

is probable, too, that
the interior, they will find specimens of tniber
inuch more vatuable than chose already discovered,
ane | For house building purposes, there are maniticent
pines, and a species of oak, which is represented to
he as dtrable as dat of Earope. For ship-building,
there are the oak, several kinds of iron-wood,
nuziba froctia glutinos
jue to the Guide-book already mentioned, furnish
masts sixty feet long, and ciehteen inehes in di-
tereter
oF hard woods.
annearditm: occidentale furnishes aw good white

s the emizrants proceed inte

, dvomas, (whieh, accord.

») several kinds of pines, and various species
For frame and joint-work, the

May tt.
Logwood, Ibs. ..120,000) Cofee, bags........99
May 18.—None.
May 25,
Lozwood, Ibs... .909,000 Balsam, eases... .. wee
Coffee, bags........673
dune Ll,
Cotlee, baws........086 0 Merchandise, case. oo. f
Honey, bb... eee et
June 8,—No returns,
June 15,

an immovable and progressive nationdig. Wid
the vices of two centuries of slaivery, and the ener:
vating iutuence of a) tropical clime clinging to
them, thes have yer been less disturbed ino cheir
political progress chan the neighboring Spanish-
American republics. Under the wise and saga
cious direction of President Fabre Gerard, the pre-
sent Exeeutive of the Republic, if work seen as
if the nation had entered upon a new aud vigorous
career of progress, Which must of necessity afeet
the status of theiy people elsewhere, as well as their
own prosperity.

The island of Hayti has a favorable scoxraphi-

Upon her saulant sons hath called, (Rep.)
And shows the (yrauts of the earth

A race nnconquercd—disenthralled.

Chorus.—

All honor to our native soil:

Or kings let's brave the tyranny;
And ifour tives mist tll 2 spoil,

Let's tose thent for sweee Liberty,

The God of natury, in His love,
Created man for happiness;
Buciman, in spite of powers above,

Did svon his teow wan oppress

path. Published by the Maytian Burcau of bani-
gration, Boston, Vattempted coercion in Hayti, there is the fullest 1 its depth varies from ten feet tosix inehes. fn the | woods and for pile work there is Che acacia minora. cary ae > The earth. a prev unto the sirone [Ren
hig Oe 4 aires is issue ive ine . . . F we : . : ) Loewood, th... .1)840,9400 Honey, bbls... 6... fe . . af i . . Soni te cate, a prey UO Te § Se Pee
S his pamphlet of 18) pages is issacd to give in lizious tofcration, and, instead of a degraded pec Valleys aad slepes, in and on the mountains, and | tennifolia, which lasts fora century, For eabinet- ponwood, Ik ibs” ye Fen “ee al and ve ietian ial leant an that Shr, ale Saw Freedonn’s cause withouta shrine;
5 , states in relacion to Central America, is) equally But Hayti hath avenged the wrong

fornauion respecting the Toland of Haytis its histo-
ry, geography, natural history, governinent, soc
ty, productions, industry, commerce, religion, cle.,
cue,

Upon the fall of Soulouque
perort!) of Mayti for nome
the country toward ineres
the power of stupidity and pe

who had been Eins

shness, anew ran

rs, and had urped |
oy barbarisin, with all

(ple, Hayti possesses one which contains the vera
of true gorcatuess.
rliest period of her history, Hayti he

From the
i . .
i been a Catholic country; but, singularly enough
wothere than h

{the Pope has wielded no more poy
A deep-rooted jealotts,

{does in he United Sta

on the suvannabs and plains, itis generally a rieh,
black lowm, varying indepth from three to ten feet,
In the lowhinds, on some of the cousts, itis a sale
Tneadow or quagmire, without any solid bottons,
except where Che roots of the mangrove ramity
and inte ,s0us8 to retain the vegetable portion
of it, carried there by the strenimns, while further
back itis formed into a solid earth, beating aban-

th

making purposes, mahogany of every variety, (the
best in dhe werld,) ehony, lnneewood, feral vatie-
gato, red and: yellow satin-ewooud abound, and are
enpable of receivi
the erithalis fruticosa, which prese
orange-wood, rosewood, guvaciin, haus, sassa-
fras, and diterent kinds of watnnt,

There are ase

ving a high polish.
sits ine odor,

rve.

Of dye- woods
tere ave loxwood, in qnantities whieh appear

inexhaustible, fustie, and satinewood, (vellow:)

No farther returns up to duly t.
RECAPLIT LATION,
Honey, bbis.........262 Logwood, Ibs. 10,217,005
Gas vo BE Comer, bags. 0... Dag
femijohus,.... ef) Cotton, bales. .... 13,080
Beeswax, bbls. . Ligaumvite, Ibs, 195,055
tieree oo... .- Yobaceo, eases
Cotton yarn, ba tierees...

trie as applied to Hayt. AT the tropical cereals
are indigencous to the soil, Colfee, cocoa, sugar,
rice, tobacco, ete. crow in the atest: profusion.
Iayti is the third cottee producing country in’ the
workd, being only surpassed by Brazil aud Java, |
aad equalled only by Ceylon in this respect.

Cotton flourishes there prolitieally. “That mostly
grown at presence is of dhe variety known as the

The mortal ofered the Divine.
CAorus.—
All honor to our native soil:
Ot kings let’s brave the tyranny;
And if our Hyves niust fall a spoil,
Lec’s lose then for sweet Liberty,

- Odo to the Haytians.

Gestrard. f Eee eee a eeencuiitee in daeunag iso, of white dominion has, sinew the declaration © | dance of jinn figs, thse, Bo wrists, and tall hich pl : height of 20 or
. . IE TECeive : ‘Cdn danuary a sass. "Phe deepest : sche j ‘ ; . aly snrmine: r > cotenitoliz ref | Oe ae : a eee shie F Sy ight or. : SOFRENCU OF PIEBR PRERT.J
wear “athy the tiatne of eal no eed OT National Independence, heen one of the most domi griss. "Phe deepest and richest soil is found in the | Bragilwood, (earmine;) myrthus cotenitotia, (vel Specie lo... ..812,000 Brnzilwood, ths. tree cotton, whieh plant atauns an ike call ad (YROM THE PRENCH OF ML PIERRE FAVREST.}
and eters. worthy the natne of good omen which ; , valleys, atid ear the mouths ef the principe low and browa,) and many hundred others, whieh | Serany lids 20 Brazilette wood, lb 80 feet, aud bears cotton oc a Tong, siky, yellowish .

veins, us ne oe character, All varieties can be raised and progce | Oh, brothers! broken now at lengat’s the yoke,

he bears, Fabre (Latin Faber), a workinan, av
builder. fe has been steadily pushing forward re.
foring in the adirinistration of the governient andl

nantideas inthe Phaytian anind; and hence, fo
many years past, Haytian Catholics have professed

rivers, and is made up of the alluvial deposits
brought down by these streams. So varinble are the
matare and characteristics of phe soil, Chat dt eften

Viel various colored dyes, of the most lovely hue.
For tanning, there are many Crees whose bark is
jnvalnable,--shelr as the guava, coressol, anonn

Mahogany, low
packages...
Hides...

tas, ensh
favo, Ine

t .
Wool, lence ad

bly cultivated. Both othe herbaceous aid ae
borescent varieties become perennial, and list sev.
er ver

Ss.

"Neath which, too long, our necks had been bowed
dewn; .
We, Black and yellow, with one gloriens stroke,

in everythi whieh bi werenny (HO spiritual allegianee to the Pope, and have re : : . : . . . . ee

fnprovements in everything which hin power can " he he { mm . . a . nudically changes in passing from one side of a | sqtiumosa, and a host of others, Por materials for Spirits, bb © Balsam, causes 33 . wo . F . :

reach. He very carly ted to induce itmigration | warded the Head of the Suite as the Head of he { yatley to another, or crossing a stream, and some. {the manafietnre of paper, hey) mistit tarnish: an Lienumyvitivsdue, bbl ues M. de St. Mery, ino his interesting and ininute | Avenged our wrongs, and gained a high mnown,
“on aan . deseription of Haya, written ac die close of the

Of persons of African descent from the United

Church! ‘To add ta the stranpeness of the anuin

tines dilleys essentinUy on the opposite banks of

uimost inexhaustiile supply, as atoes, perfotiats,

wc Owe >

lust century, speaks o€ cotton growing spomntane.

Aud God, in loveand justice, making place

nnd other plaints whieh serve this purpose, Hourist

the vivers; and often in pussitee atom the voud, it

will be observed to change an the course of a few For Diack and yellow Vaeside the white,

Brae, and bas pow an agency for that purpose in
ously on che mountain sides in: ocherwise waste

aly, there have been no Bishops, Archbishops, or,

‘or albinen ef etr ree,

Sioston, at the bead of which is the weil-known

Chere with extraordinary laxurkince. OF resinous

Colored Amorican Intertropical Emigration.

places, and being everywhere of a superior quatity.

Each elass could say, *

“ine wpe . tins side indeed, Kuperior ti nes of any hi : . : i . .
Jaines Kelpath, forinerly of Kannas.  Vresident o bupenor funetiounries of any hind all the rods, oreven feet. Lathe larger valleys and pliius, | woods there isa great variely- allot whieh may ' ery . vere .
Getfrard wants inen and women, work aith new | elergy have been inevely priests, who owe their ap. eopecially some distance fom the mounitins, it is | be put to useful purposes. To the Bditors of the New York Beeniny Post : “Baron Wimptler’s Vovage to St. Domingo, We have achieved with blood the patriot’s right,

In your issne of the 2éth of dune, appears an inter. [curious work written at the same period, speaks ot

ideas and with powers auch as colored nen of the
United Blates mmy be expected to bring, despite
the disadvantages of their position bere; and he
Offers wivantages to ciigesants of that race, if they
will Vut make the rich and beautiful island of Tay-
U their home and thelr country,

Rince this movement began, the great rebellion
hae changed Ube aspect of the sluvery question in-
calealably, What ois te come of it no aman ean
foresce; and in what new position the block man
may be placa) sod with what new prospects none
can foretell. WH alavery be abolished in the
struggle? Or willit survive, shorn of its vaunted
poiitieal Importance, bated of the nation for its
parsieidal attempt upon the natlonal life, and des-
Uied tean extinction ly rapld decay? One or the
other of these vesulis Ja Inevituble, And whatthen
shill become of the black san? A Jeading finan
cia Journal, ‘Thompson's Hanl-Note Reporter,
gays that the resale will be the abolitfon of shivery
ond the establishment of a Negro Kepublie, ander
the protection of the United States. Woo, the
black man will have an opportunity te seek elvili-

pointnent solely to the State, But this state ov
things has not proved to be one of uninixed pood,
Aad recently, an arrangement has heen come to,
between the President aid the Pope, by whieh a
[ishop of Taytl shall be appointed by the former,
subject ta confirmation by the latter; und to this
j functionary shall be given the power of nominnt-
ing the priests, subject to the approval of the Pres-
ident. “The Bishop and priests are also required to
tale the uth of fidelity to the Haytion Govern.
msent. This concordat, which is the anast liberal
ever concladed with the Hoty See, has been ratithed
by the Phaytinn Senate, and transmitted to Rome
foy sivnntane, Cpto the present dime, there have
beet ouly ahbeat Uiirty outish prieata ia Hayti, bat,
Hider the sew arrangement, there will be about
HOVCTUHY,

Ky the epeclal fivitatlon of Pétion, Protestantisan

othe

tnore Uniforms and agore duiforn on dhe south side
of the Eshind, than in the interior and on the nerus
On some of the inottotains and: their
elevated slopes, he soitis wood, aud the peas and
sinuhut undergrowth, grow dense and rink to

Having Qhus briefly entamerated the advantages
held ont to the agricaltural migrant to Tayi, we
would respectfully, yet earnestly, invite de atten:
tian of freeamey of color to this: subject; for we
feel confident that by emigrating and devoting heir
chergics to the cultivation of any of the saiples of

esting arcele on Negro Colonization.” ‘The promi-
hence given to the letcer of WG.” induces the
present writer Co nsk room to present some copent
reasons Why the suggestion contained in that com.
titniention--of a Pacitle colony, ov in taeted any

their very tops, while te elevated: portions of others
susttin only broken er ragged forests of pitch pine,
interspersed with patra, and mis hiwel and: clea.
Ide woods, Others of (hese totutiing are neain
Dold and stele on their tops and ground their
ninmit, peering up through the preen and heavy
follage below, fike naked cones, An anatysis of
the solbat different places attests the fiaet Chit it ds
highly aprognated with the qnineraly peculiar to
(he mountaing, whieh: probably necounts for its vie
rlety in cotor fu different locatitles, ft hus been
found to contain iron, salpbur, copper, antimony,
Increnvy, pold, cobalt, caaiganese, salt, and other
Indaerals, in various combinations and: comdions
at diferent poms. ‘Tho gold is, of course, found
pure, ane diMused: die dhe sed) alnest all over the
stand, dn sie places belng only very. pliphtly
trucenble, and di others palpably so.

“th vesard to the producthvedess of de soll,

at

vey in his “Voynge to St. Domingo,”
surpassing beauty and grander; dts valle
and fertile, ae diversiited by pouths ascents
clivities, and spread over with the most luxuriant
vevetion;s tho platas aro mapaitieanst in their ex-
tent, and produetive: dn thelr soil; and both are
bounded hy mountains of prodigious althiude,
Which lave thelr sides covered with perpetimal vers
dure, adorned with the (yetveo, the palmetree, the (Ordeal of Free Labor in the British West tides, to
coconnnt, and the amen.”

“In these deliaitfal spots,” says the Abbe Ray:

that Republic, Gay will specdily veatize their most
SHENG ex pectitions,

As Intending: einigrants muy desire sou infori:
jon about the scenery of the country, wo subjoin

a fow extracts from the pens of some of the most
able writers on Hayti:

“The matural seenery of Tlayth? says) Me. Tar:
“is that oof

i, viel
wniadcle |

attempt of the Amerionn continent: or its depend:
cneies--showld not be considered,

Tho evidence is incoutrovertine, thatthe African
race clement has evown too rapidly for any portion
to be disposed of without reference to the ficure
destiny of the whole, ‘Tho thirteen and a half mil-
lions of this Atric- American people to be fou! in
North, South, Central Atmerien and the stands of
tho Gall, are foo stubborn adnet to be dealt with
tightly, ‘Two-thirds of this population are pure
blacks, the romninder mised with Europea and
fndian races. ‘Thoy have tar mons vitligy dian the
Indian, and already, ino tho British colonies, the
growth of tho mixed rice is so striking asta hidtice
shrewd observers Hike Mr. Sewell, the author of the

declare iGam ovidenes of dhe growth af a West tae
inn race,

itin similar language, wand as requiring but little
edare, and bat for the den mecertain natury of
the demand, yielding large profits. According to
Edwards and Rainstord’s werks on the [shind,

there were, at the close ef the hse century, in) the
Spanish and French colonies 752 plantations ex-
clusively devoted to Che raising of coc. AC Ute
those of the last eentury, the West ladies supplied
Creat Britain with (0,000 bales, or Chivee-fourths ef
the amoune then needed,

A, Dennis Harris, an intelligent coloved citizen of
Ohio, last’ summer visited che Andes and a por

tion of Conteal Armerica, wid a view co tind a place

of setdement for his race, and who, since his re.

tien, has published the resalcer bis observations

jun hietle vole entitled, “SA Sammer ins the
Caribbean Sea,” to whieh George William Curtis

wrote an introdnetion, advocates” Ehlayti as a snita-

ble place for his people in the Vniled States to emi-

vrate to. Amore ether Giets cited by him, is aa

lnstanee ef a South Carolinians fugitive stave, whe

eseaped fo Hie eouniry, atel das sevtived a fava of

forty acres du (he Spanish portions By his own he /

Oh then! what joy (or us! Unto our braves,
From Enrope’s shores, came wonls of hearty
cheers
And, throwrh the laud whiel: fonds cieee nvion
shaves,
The clashing of our swords sent thrills of fear.

“Well done, brave hearts!" Thus did) good Gre.

soi Great,

And Sharp, and Wilberfaree, and many a friend;

“Welldone! But would yeu now your work com-
plete?

Let Black and yellow in firm union blend.”

Union! an old, old won, but still sublime!

Oh, brothers! to if let us aye prove true!

"Tis God's own counsel. tneach land and elime,
Tle nots the seul, and not the skin's chance hue.

‘Mie PUN AND PALA.

VAL wastasaron stREvE,

PUBLISEEED RV KRY THURSDAY, UT
HOSTON, EV GAMES REDUATH, PROPRIETOR

Forun:

hon anil tlnte of his wile, the fant and house were | . One Dallve per ata, duvariably iad:
paid for an ene years Phis man planted a small j yanee; NY cents additional to Canadian subseribers, ty cover
pantity of sen ishud cotton, whieh yielded abun | international postage.

zation in tadependence, such as few finve dared to
aoclpate; though De Pucqueviie jn dls Deamorra
ey ln Aimeriea, suggested i result sisailar, thirty
Yeurs ago, °

Suppose we remove Che negro poprtation of the
Boulder Shive States (whieds is atl dine can now enter
Into the argument) to the Pacitle orto Afvica, what 1 ¢

was introduced jute Wayth in IZ. ‘Vo the Wen.
leyan Missiorarlen who cme, be extended a cor
dial welcome, and gave (hem the atinost tiberty ta

wiffies hte any that, potwithetanding its diversity | nal, al the sweets of Spring ave enjoyed, without
nod variety, Hha prolitie beyond anything: fouid in peither Wilater or Summer. There ie bat awe sen:
the Antitted, wid uotexeelled by that af the Tallen } sens of the your, and they are equidly ine; and the

PANN A Bie ag Pa A a tha ee

e BAe. ee Fao

e :

caunet be

ter’s nuuse fell penestit the 2:

eee |

Yu : ‘
‘ye ) on IP PONTOON INET] ‘ 7 YP Or 2 ' =
YEAR \l WBER d, OS : : DA J ANUA ' r 18 523 Ve 0 P 1 M
; BOSTON : THURSDAY, J RY 28, 1862. WHOLE NUMBER, 132.
~ % SY. ‘ . And i recietapain be megan dis power, he nenr abs The ¢ a Ore wd enirae Ve arin apt . : “a . o . _ — ~
ry he Alpper Branch th, ish the meniry of afin bis Taeastlwitt hindtess: " ibs, , He country isvery wild, forming, My the rapid manner in which they ‘had to | but leaving her bosom bare; A happy ! bundle of clothes is the sultan of Loggun. | - How Boxus Sami
_ — he na getteth tno: allihe dass or his ite, the southern border of the desert and is ine, travel from Loggun, which was threntened by :day to yout your friend has brought you | Before this bundle all the court fall prostrate, i miauclture of gests
oe. . ae wh se doce creettect ae a we a . , \ toa fae pe . Carrer) . bt . A A A i “ur . : aL al hoes) to
Me Lover's Ofer. th hatst of ths every ma fe tk tye tous habited by a few tribes of its roving inbabi-’ the Baghirmis, and by tho want of proper milk. You gave her something so hand-! and pour sand on their heads; whilst eight | esting. The shell is &
DEANS ATED Se fae reas Mees and dewers: ‘eo meart of the mneraptat ig BES. "They once held the extensive governs provisions on the way. The Sheiii of Bormu! some yesterday, she had not forgotten it. | funfrums and horns give an inbarmonious e- | fashioned round leaden t is -_ ;
: Ble adeserio! sand which swalloweth wrirgreed Ment of Wanem y but made themselves: so, came with an army, hastily gathesed, to repel / Oh! how her eyes aghe to see. all you have ; lute. . is then parered into the 3 ‘ sioss
Less Cig shrew ots chat fas ban hanieth thea brits obnoxious to the neighbors by their predatary these invaders; and tho hostile furees met! gat in that wooden house! (pointing to a His majesty whispers a weleome. For it! tind the bulles in one solid mass ;. the
lector: heather strive te conceal habits, that a combination was formed iycuinst near Angala, ‘The enomy, who wore in great; trunk.) We have no fears now; we know! it not good manners to speak lond in Log. is then put iuto a kind of isthe. ¢ ac
tered fa thousch tw oblige them, hy which a great part of them were cut strength, came forward boldly ard offered | you are good; and our eyes which before! gun, You can scarcely hear the gentlemen’s | drical hole of the exact size of the orihe
vn Hae atch the act at gee olf ‘They now have only afew temporary battle; which the sheik declined, us he could j could not look on you, now search after you} voices, when they address you. “Do you | the shell is Lored : the bullets
hotly the hearts iad is amiable in settlements, ready to be abandoned at the. not get into 80 favorable a position for fight-talways. ‘They bade us beware of you, at! wish to buy some handsome female slaves?’’ sulpbur ; this cavity is filled with
wi Ge tant ann. the hand uf the first alarin ofa toe _ing as he desired. ‘fhe alarm at Angala and ifiret, for you were bad, very bad; but we | asks his majesty, who seems to have « mer-! even with tha interior , edge. of the om.
he seit amd avaricions Nave no ollie Phe whole country is overrun with large: Angornu Was great ; as the departure of a know better now, iow it pains us that you; cantile turn of mind; ‘for if you do, you six inch shell of the kind Leredescribed 1
wot pride shall eapese thee to aud small hands of robbers. Your own es-; katila for Soudan had deprived the sheik of }are so white!” ' need not go farther ; Ihave seme hundreds ing about « half a “ Ples fase £
steediness of avarice shall never be cort would prove as grext plunderers as any; thirty Arabs, his best warriors. | Aisha, the daughter of a chief comes to! and will sell them to you us cheap as any to the orifice is poo Beigin a
from whow they could protect you 5 so that! The Baghinnis secing his hesitancy to ! visit the stranger, two days after: the fight, | one.” , : made of pewter, plied tenentbles the aa
ohe Palm you worth fiud yourself to he really assoctietc d light, andl attributing it to fear, now ventured cand with weeping eyes says, * A happy day If you go into the houses: of Lo 1 for the ‘pas - ‘Aa
' = ro with lawless bandits, and would have to brave | to attack him in the plain near whic he had | to you my friend! What can hy “’ van will find many of them busy at the Joom. | tion of this cap shows, howe
Bas fo oe aere THe ABIGCANS APT HEV the, cote eters of their iihtiog with the pueun ile isposed his f-vr Arabs and | Aisha’s not having seen him for * men are more industrious than - the | it is’mtade of twe hollow dises of mei
Her bread warn Wh AP RGEANS AY HEN natives. ‘The distracted state of the country [Jorty Musyo snuekctensson 1°. fuks cand But what could she do? Feht of |: * ahelp ‘cloth ji an as : P
y . sore, s : * ould she do? Js : tr eotton cloth isaf annoy . oe
Moved . ent oF n Cloth iste OF ed. togetiver, sad. illed with ~--]

SVE M. Machi anit, Me A. surpassed. Every one’s hand | hoisting his green flag in the centre,
CHAPTER NU ee . : ;

Cut hinc ant coking Pie  UiBering tribes plunder one another whenever | men. ‘Two guns were in’ front, which had
whee Wodlicdarie Death of opportunity occurs, living in aconstant site been mounted hy Mr. Hillman, a- carpenter

The

«moe?

Why Sleep Restores. hers EXphant Hunt afalarn. On this account you could not counected with the British mission.
Trnaastatey Fu THE Pe asian.) with the Baghiee peach the east of the lake by passing along its © Baghirmis came forward in a solid mass, five

-- thie
- Lpthe River to
7 s> Mere:
Perea

Shuwas —Con-

northern berder ; which would otherwise be | thousand strony, with two hundred chiefs at
the best route, their head, and made direetly for the centre
Therefore we must stuart again from Kooka, where the standard of the prophet Was unfurl
‘To travel close by the lake would be almost ed. Phe artillery drove them back. Then

ef the impossthle, from the marshy character of its. they fell on Barea Gana’s dank with so’much
the innumerable hosts of mosquitoes iimpetuosity, that all but himself aud a chosen

Vpspers
mia oA Bas
ze Lcts

ue

take a survey

sd tore a wrrf! Pye 1.
Wale Covers a stbhaee ty MEW siores,

septate nitles iu the tmmediee o whiel: frequent the anargin, and che will lial gave way. Here Marany, Denham’s
ef ive Ral Ths Inrge expanse of beasts whieh we have alresdy mentioned. friend and preserver in the fight with the

oreatmterest to Ebay Hide the clophants care for aman, may Felattas. fell by the thrust of a spear, whilst
hers, theueh itis mot

eo to the people be gathered from a hunt perpetrated by Maj. he was drawing his own from the body ofa
ne dad dts in fhetef ne

wee tucany Denham and some of the sheik’s people. eltef whom le had killed. The Bornuese
he whe peede whe dnkebic the Finding three large elephants erazing near horse and Arabs now closed upon the Bag-
ads wit winch otis stiwhled. At seme the water, the hunting party prepared tor hirmis, who fled. Only one of their two
fate perbad itanay be an inportant partof action, ‘The footmen were ordered to re. hundred chiefs is said to have escaped. Seven
hyyand one of the mest dee aiain behind, and four horsemen approached sens of the sultan were among the slain, and
At first the creatures did not seem | seventeen lundred men of less nete. Num

Atvieane feour:

Lisdtul bau wsoabits central revions. the cane,

The Boldomas, whe dwell in the isles of tu eare for their hunters, or the wild eries bers were killed by the villagers in: their:

this lake. ure one of the wiklest and nest whieh they uttered; but afterwards they. flight; amd inany vere drowned iv a stream

a “> seeue tibes of omens ‘They have darge eave a loud roar that: shook the forest, and) which they atten -.e! to cross, cressed by
Loss and Gain. csiieneye. and flatteatures 5 their imeved slowly off the largest keeping in the | Kanembo spears

at cae: leak is morose and repagnant, and their neck rear. ffe was intercepted, and a spear was / All the peopl . raised “the guns, the
ing. Fivcmen det their hair vrow, and plait: thrown, which struck him under the tal.) guns, which mad..
and twist itinte knots. Ja early years they fe only vave a rear, and lifting his proboscis | wraid that too nus might be mide of the
eelleet Leads and other ornaments, which discharged a volley of sand that nearly blind- Busta. said, that truly the guns were wonder-
they wear round their necks. bat which are ed the horsemen. He tarmed towards the’ fd, Sut that he . ted up his hards in prayer,

ren te their wives on marriage, ‘They seb place where the footmen were stationed, who aul from that rioment yietory was decided.

wine? Sy the conq“erors was con-

majer’s servant was sv frightened that he did siderable ; fon’ dn clre! and © ghty horses,

andoadept robbers. They traverse the not recover the shock that day. Te ne de! two hundred — + ues, two emiuchs, and the
in canoes which they qnanage with wreat beast went onward at al elu "y rolling + Lk, laxgage of the ormees.  Vifty of the women,
espertness p and keep the entire mavigahon whieh kept the herses ac wr Lup. | belonging to 1 -altan’s sons, were choice
intheirewn hands. Hones itis impossible ‘Phe hot of two balls 5° wg Vel emales of great beauty, and were given. up

demesne to the mainland except when they all seampered off'as fast as possible; and the, ch auoty: gz

want ty steabsomething ; for they are confirm:

‘
ree

fruck

tack them in their homes, towhich they hina moment’ - a Sy f¥ to the shetk. Teesides these, a ‘crowd of
apeeniy conver all stolen property. from is tech 4 weche gy uy slaves were taken. and sold in’ the’ Kooka
The banks of the lake are generally swam- deft hin marker tye or chree bullocks a-pieee.
or, The slbeonsisting of blick and, inwhich |! smneared, «  sbtfess| - Going tageward, we reach Showy ‘on’ the
riches and reeds grow tuxurianthly. Wild “ i heen aunoy- Shoty,  Dbie hee fine river, about a mile
fowl are abundant on the margin, and the mi «party, | wide at this place, aad flows gently into tha,

Chad, at the rate_of two or. three mpesgor
the town, i5 a beautiful ished” A cae

the river presents some exquisite scene |,
from the variety and richness of the foliage
which lines the banks. ‘The trees are hung
all over with creeping plantsof various colors;
which, by the luog windings of the stream,

Waters tec with excellent fish. Do you nk
what thers roonle, saith Te hore
kind of sinvle file? Wateh them, and you
will ses that they are driving a quantity of
thi

Whe vient to drive them away.
re Termes i. daraqeeyes ot

prenea {hom Gloscly te ore tuey even tern
_their hacks; net caring for tho spears that
were thrown at them, and only frightened at
(flashes trom the gains, ‘Throwing out a
Lareat quantity of sand, they inajestically  re-
Le the band, or even leap ashore, ina vain [rooted A nue “birds, somewhat like 1 L
attempl to escape from their pursners, Now 't.. ches, were perch. | sail " displayed to erent aulvantage. About at
a fire is uevle pand aatiek being ranthrough ! te be very useful to the ef pant in pom foo ailes from the lake is anuther isan,
the month into the belly of each fizh, it is off vermin fram those parts of his body whieh: wie. cd, but abounding in game of Var
stuck dute the round close to the clear fame. che cannet reach, dias acc des tht the yous hands, and with centipedés, Scorpions,
The ror-ting feb ean be turned Ly the tail, (hantsmen were not all ke oa .* ®aeporeupines: Crgeodiles. hippopotami,
the elephant is comparatively cee ess. ue nd bufftyes syare; about) ¢ river, Near
often becomes infuriated when gece cee cal te mow 8 ut) ds ea vered with
Ditndine his pursner with sand, ota al -veds + mk; and th banks bere are
are enight with nets in the Yeo, whieh flaws crushes him te death. wry; esi ving with moses and
inte the dake a Jittle north of Kooka, and Passing through Aneornn, which we i. volethert si in 3 Lhe nearest acd of
being dried, are sold inall towns of the vi already described. we coast the lake to Ang. (the Bidde cas to. is parbof the Jake is said
cinity, la. a town situated near its most southerly @ 2 adhe days? voyage for a canoe.
Continuing to pass northward along the point, where iis formed into a Kind of calf I ; Giirafis sbound fe this distriel, On bo
western side of the lake, we traverse adis)  Angale is the capital of an ancient govern) ing et
‘triet full of wild beasts, and reach the town ment subject to Bormay and Bl Kanemy had | being so bew behing, seeming to drag ie
of Burwha, ‘This is a frontier town of five oro qnarried the danghter of its sultan, She Wats | hinds: Jaw aftes end ; they are not switt.
six thousand inhabitants, whieh basa high snow divoreed from him, and lived near her) "Phe chief iat biteits ofthis country are a
wall and dry ditch, and is otherwire defended father, who buila house for ber eeciupaney, tribe of Shingas, more simple an wnsophis-
in order to keep off the “Tuariek Arabs who cand furnished her with a large establishment. Hieated than those ¢# the west.
‘infest the deserts, In proceeding Sirther, eXhe was avery tandsome, beautifully | have fine Ines eats with much expression
we enter a forest of acaeias and uiulerwool, formed Negress, ofabout thirtydive, and had | of countenance , and a dong bushy beard,
“a favorite haunt of elephants and other mons dibibed mmeh of that softness of manner, | They do not live in towns, hut in tents al
Sater. sand in whieh is Woodi, the Little exp. which is so extremely prepossessing in dhe) dressed hides and eis of casts. subsisting
sheik. Seated on me eatthern throne, eoyer-; chiefly on the milk ef the' ea.ccls and cows,
ed owith a ‘Tarkey carpet, surrounded hy | Their camps are etrealar, with > entrances,
twenty of her favorite slaves, all dressed [by which to drive in and out their eatile.
alike, in fine white shirts, whieh reached to
their fect; their neek, ears, and noses driek-
hy ornamented with coral > she held ber andi-
ener with very considerable yaace, Four
ennuchs qnarded the entranee y anda Newra
dwarf, who measnied three feet all Tat an

te, ane
Pin the ne

- Gain
1

BO MOTs

finny tribe: before them into the shallows,
where the frightened fish are easily caught

‘

hoe
arranler’

cacr hae!

se that both sides are enoked 5 and the repast
they afford is fir from despicable,
They resemble mullets, A) great quantity

Met sult ts].

whaen

’
i

ital of this istrict, governed by a sheik,

Stayltheve: daa snake of ne ordinary sizes
ft ie Vk of horrid appearance,
not dee than eighteen feet done. Hyon kill
it you will find an its belly several pounds of

fat. whieh the natives o-teem hichly us ut

en colul

mr,

thoueh they are necessarily subject, inthe way
of tribute, to the king in whose territory they
reside, :

Major Denham expresses himself'as great
ly pleased with (he simple manners af these
Shiwa Arabs. They salute as stranger by
clapping their hands geady, and then extend-
ine, the pals towards him, exelaiming, Are
yeu welland happy? One of their ehiefs,
rau patriarehal man, looked at dhe Kuropeat
for sme Gime with great earnestness, ail al

specie for the ieeoses af ratt}e,
At the northwestern corner of the dale is
Dork a sued) town standing Gian eminence,
“Pro diweiling buts are bidlt of rashes, renmd ineh, the keeper of her keys, sat before her
cand comeab; with aanat hung apat the only with the instenin of ofliee on lits shoulder, and
apertice, which serves for dour, window, al rieldy dressed in Soudin tobe. This ithe
Pehimmey. A fereen of mats ts used te divide | person afforded usa subject of conversation,
tthe ditt: house, when partis allotted to the and oaneh laughter,
| WOIneN, i Mira inquired: whether we had) such
| fn this vieinity, are acmimber of petty vil- Hite fellows inomy eountry sand when |
Haves, inhabited by the Kanembo, consisting anmavered in the allirmative, she said, Ah.

ST APTS PI Spe,

tee \
Vin ¥ un

AEE COM IGTE Set,

rerres

- ,

ch Raney

at take

oneliest feara,

te Ob a ths

SOE abe The

angnish there ontapreul,
ewe shed

theauih the

Gad

sthy sau} shall learn to draw say your country is ameon from Tripoli?

Fae ae ‘ ia ae Fafa editor of huts erected ander the ghode ygéeb! what are they ood for? do they ever? o Pe see hy whom the country is inhabi-
eo Feyage and to thaw, : ‘ cae ” , - wera o¢
' ’ ted, aul whether it has lakes and rivers and

Dofatree, "Phe men wear onky the fine, and have children?) Po answered, Vo that we
had instances of their bein fathers totalland
proper men? (OWL wonderful’ she replied;
J thonrht so; they aanst he better than this
doy of mines ford have given hime eight of
my yeunecst mid bandsomest slaves, Tut it is
all to ne purpose,” "The wreteh, and an agly !
wretel he wae. shook his large head, amd slob: the with and ehildrenol my heart for ten
‘ays, when they should be elosed with sleep
they are flowing with tears.”

fle asked iit was true that the dollar
vame out of the earth?
the matter explained to him, said, You are
not ews?”

ong”

eChistiangs, then?”

“Tayen so"

“Poohave read of you; yeu are hetter

mountains like our own”

“Anil have you heen three years from
your home? Are not your eyes dimmed
wilh straining tothe north, where all yeur
thourhts must ever he?

we

“ And life is rood,

recon anders og]

sane) hrethechond

Adelaide Al Proctor,

6 mem >

Don't Fret.

Shere ae
aor

OOF Ga THOS

acsingndar head-picee, bein a cap with ared
nea 1.
Chandage and aerown of bristling reeds. ‘They
are adorned with a ueeldace af white beads,
They

and

oe Ot

ou) with several {eRe pers oY charms.

Cay ae peary shickbs, and javeline 5
when mittetered by their chiefs, form an essen
tial parkof the army of Born AC eqeat
ran of the Is anenmhe live in Kaka, eonsh
bigtinnge one e}ement of ite population; Inet
their rade nenmers da not appear tobe much

Hazanelebbor ictarcd sou?
fone t fret -

weenie Off thie best:

Lee) copiously fom his extensive mouth,
af this tattering prof’ of lis mistress’s pre:
tality.”
Saltered dy Heing in the eapital Shortly after this, en their return from
Itwwe ina prety hamlet of the above de- ‘Deswon, a plant yong Hegetishanvan died
seription, cstled Madnwarrie, that Me Overs at Vingla, He was ensign in a sepiment
This zendons travel stationed at Malta; and had vealily volun
“teered to join Majar Denham at Kooka, when
owas found expedient te seml help to the
Peanade an extraordinary journey

Tyas ta pet
Meyer mith at, le :
Joon t fret,

Haase hiarerd ie been tet?
Porn’? free
Jroeut h.
I nyc ine aqaice alone,
feo aili dit for vant af heratiny
Pron ’t fret

rug pte h tty chee !

wee breathed die dast,
leads probably the anky Batrapean whe ever
vicited the idands of the Jake; and he would
have had come euriews daformation to tive

Ate gan Onbinies at he?
Joon t fret Miitesion.

Vorgean th injare you a whit: . “bye A : : ; . ‘ ssowhi Tea vou?’
; Hewes haut vat heed thea’ net about ite wild inhabitants, if he bad strvived. oaeress the desert, aad proeeered with) his than Jews. Are Jews white, hike yout
Tae yg eli caan Wee cial te quits compartion alone the south of the lake. But; Noy rather mere like yoursell ; very

Hie herds led caffered from the land eli-

dosed Pret. . : : . . net
Pawn tr gvate dn which he was puaseine his dieecaveas

his comehtation bein te pive way, amd det darko
heeanw so serionsdy al that the Major has ‘Really.
They area bad people.”

On taking leave, be took: my hand and
TP never saw

anon day, whilet shooting in the marshes, j |
heya seized’ with cold folloyed hy a fever, Clened with him Ge Aneta, where they teed |
[ie belt na heen heepitahly received, and where every at |
Heoitinny was pal fe the dying: ollieer, led said, To see you area aautan,
rallied fortwo days; then a cold shivering: | any hady hike you. ‘Phe sight of you tas
| Pleasing to my eyes aa your words are fo ay

Pa nhvepsity cee fat?
Pron’ t free
beep turning rou:
boc ey epee ail reach the tag,
Vere Hee Cat is an teen,
i Poon't fret

Bartuitets sherk:

under whieh he rapidly sank.

segether jentrna) ar papers Uiit were of nny

Sonya mnnher of seraps. whieh le had

intended to form inte a isry 5 lout whieh oo enime Hypo hits, uahare was exhausted, uel A

were unintelligible: to any body but bimeedf “he expired without a groan, aged twenty-pear Ly heart says you are my friend,
Should you wish fo EMEVeY the northern twa, Ne the sea was ctakioe, dts body was May yenr thin a your own lente, and in’ the

cite of the Take, con mast hive an eset of ontered ina deep: prave, under ae elump of) arms of your wives and family.

Ttoomine inimesas, northwest of the town; oo Nmen,

ond a buniee pile of thorns and of the prick | There is something romantic in (te burgtge

ly folfoh were placed coven, fe puetect from:

YEP S

Ths Keonomy of Human Iifo.

KAY,

Agthe brane es of aire pemmen theie sop te the
rend Prom cebence gt pense. pe river poureth his
arrest eo, who his pring was capplied ,
wep he Serene rete fel man Vela bteth ia retin

Sten, Corubiterdes.

Pe Pa ie ef thbe hook fan Phe Aftieone at Theres
Regge Magrder Description of frie sand te Atricans cra

He PD fren Mee Aeeerent ef Vbeicni Deesvettens fren thea

tye beonetie eee qyed ty . ' ' . Hee B
, . . meet Mba Pork te the Present bn, ate the Bev KR ; . . aan ‘ ae
Me oa detertiohis obbiction vith cheerful gp voter WA Awthyer Of the Meadinge wad Poole het disturbed by dyer: yobavet with the pu {iw spurt af theeast. A,
nes, be debe an hia bene here vith tac andl Gear, i lewd Lepgmin, Gren, Tenge and i} ay) om : . ' , Ae Conderta daw Ww “ta covering het face
eels Provente WAL Mi ‘Jonle’e death was porhaps lin dened | pinbent dawn hy your font.e 4 .
Bement HPA PREC UN R ie, Ka Mase Rute Liteon

oe dogs skip.” ‘The sheik, .

i, they moe awayouvkwardly, wen:
This own filthy race?"

he men!

They despise the Negro nations azutunl then, ;

last sal, What bronglit you here? ‘They ;

Oh you are men, |
men, iidecd? Why. ifiny eyes da not see,

And upon having,

Why, are they not quite white?

and qaiercet these Shawas, whe seem to be,

2, AN a DO IRONBELS 2

‘heart that she saw not her friend! Still toy

sees to be against his neighbor 5 and thes forward in the midst of his Kanembo spear-: nook She was obliged to stay and mourn |
over them; but she mourned) more in her |

‘deserved her tears, for they were brave and
beloved. But then the whole camp would !

ihave wept for them, and the stranger was
alone, and had nobody to bring hin inilk;
—n0, no, she was wrong.

would have come, and had passed the barrier; :

she feared nothing but giving pain to him she
ithemeht of,—but she knew not herself. The
chy aus howled ; they came near her; her
dort vas small, and she turned back!’

Bel: pressed tu enter, che girl gets fright

Last night she '

feral ond. exclaims, “Wait here! sit down
hee cathe sand: Aisha is now frightened
bar's friend! What docs he ask her ty do?

a che see her beaten with leather thongs
it ie bleeds?
aw red witb her bluad—the blood of her

©  ohin it beat for, while her head tells her |
-6 out Aisha’s heart is weaker than Lo-
wal; her eyes have seen her stranger friend, ;
ang have seen none Hike him?’

If this be aot making love, what is? A.
resent heing offered, with an admonition to
return to the camp 5 she replies, ‘Ll go for it
disnewday. What take pretty things from
{her ‘riend now, when she knows his eves
ihave no pleasure in her! Ne—Not She |

Would he have her brother’s ;

, Which now beats so strony, and bids it j

j now Jeaves him; but when night comes, and |

all her house will be singing over the dead, |
then Aisha will have no tears—she will leave
the tent ; but her stranger must come with
his gun, and protect her from the hyenas.”
Poor danuter of the desert! We fear she
had lost her heart for a_ stranger, in a way
that might form the subjeet of an interesting
romance,

We have said that the eolor and religion
ofa Christian are great scarecrows for the peo-
nlaaf Fura... -whyd this not only with the
f-tyO pue poztuvdio ‘aonjdpitied the white
hiefg

; BUR Ly OE crap, Leen 4 ORE
ing m the city ; and ate s“j.me consultatyon,

ithey venture to approach him. ‘The eldcat
heyins :

“What do you here? You do not buy or
sell? Is it true that you have female slaves?
No one toxhampoo you atter a south wind?”

“Quite true; for Dam a stranger, and far
from home and alone.”

“You area katir,(infidel,) Khaled ; and
Jit is you Christians, with the blue eyes like
ithe hyena, that eat the blacks, whenever you
‘ean get them far crongh away from their own
j country.” ,

i “rot deliver me from his evil glance,”

said ogecl, Cis that (rue? Why they have
bean aere new for sometime, and don't seem
‘very ravegel Would it not he better te give
| hin a wife or twos teach him to pray, like a:
Musstuman. and never let bim return among |
;

“Cod forbid.” says the old woman, who
heging to reason with her youthful and more
i merciful companions ; and then cries out,
“What infatuation is this? Why.D tell) you
cagain aad again’ he is anuncireumedtsed kati!
‘neither washes, ner prays! eats pork! and

will goto hell?”

|< Oh. oh! the Lord preserve us from. the

ieternal devil!” And xereaming aloud. they
Fadl ron off

1 The
mirthtd
daring tie day,
TI@e 1
indaneing tothe sound ofa dyam. Phe
women sit near, with covered frees, ane
cxereatn their approbation. Bat what is this
merry party, amusing themselves near the
river with a long skipping rape’
black figures, uninenmbered with any drape-

Tre men do Tite but lounge about
Atuight they tis ia the

scople of Showy are indolent and +

> aid spend the other hours of darkness |

They are:

hry but what nature has eiven chem; fine tie |

i wres too: and they perforn the jumping and:
skipping very well. Gentle readers they are
young hadies of good size; who appear to be

quite unsophistioated about the decerum of |

dvess, and {to see no necessity. fer covering
itheir term from the eve even of a stranger.
Let them remp away! nd may they never |
lanow the shame af evil? When they marry |

they nist wear veils. |

Passing up the Shary, through ditieult
Hierasses and faresis, and cress tributary
streams, we shall find our way te Logeun,
the eapital ofa small kingdom. [ts western:
rte lenuls to the principal street, whieh is
very wide and: has dwelling on each side,
‘huitt with much regularity. ‘The peepte

come of fa see us: and presently av offeer

front the palace astvanees, bending very low, |

Sand joining his hands.
ithe sultan to give us weleeme, and new pre-

place, As ye pass along the street, every
jrirty that we see advanee and salute us ina
The accommodation allord-

ostuilar manner.
rod awe is
LE Vow are poing to visit the sultan. Take
your preent with vou. ‘Ten huge Negroes,
af High rank, bare headed, and) earrying
Aare elnba, come and precede yen to: the

SI eoad,

prelave,
you veneh a large sete contre, when many
persens are assembled, all seared on the
event,
cand von ave desired to sitdewn there ‘Twe
cshives fan the aiv throngh a dation wark, be.
hind whieh ¢he sultan ts coneented On oa
) RIVen simnal, the sereen is removed, and you
sero Tai, ere be on a enypet, wrapped mn
eilk tobos, and having he head so) envelyped
Hin shawls that only his eyer are visible That

Feades us to the buts appointed for our resting
i
}

. |
He has come frem |
'

Passine throvel seme dark rooms, ”

i vais a Vien WO .
Te the middle is a vacant space 5; mien appear and vanish as the grass, and the

--eanally on account of a 4

——
wee

ooh they know 10 Sorart_to
Vendyed mearefactnre, Shey.

age than the‘Lor-,

&

ue and ar. ine

are the cleveres’ : immoral race
f had met with in the blacy country.” This
expression paints @ strong aaracter in a few
words ; but seems to be uot far from the
truth, ‘Take the fullowing little scene as a
sample,

“The ladies of the principal persons in
the country visited ine, accompanied by one
or more female slaves. They examined
cers, And more inquisitive ladies 1 never '
saw in any country. ‘They begged for eve-
rything ; aud nearly all attempted to steal
something ; when found out, they only laugh- ;
ed heartily, clapped their hands together,
und exclaimed, "Why, how sharp he is.
Only think, why he caught us!’ ‘The mod-
esty of these ladies was ona par with their !
honesty.

But here is something that is new in Ne-
roland; a piece of money or current. com:
Itis not. indeed, of gold or of silver, or of
the usual round shape. It is composed of
thin plates of iron, in the form of a horse-’
shoe ; which are made up into parcels of ten
or twelve according to the weight ; and thir-
ty of these parcels are equal toa dollar.
Sall, this coin ix subject to fluctuations in
value, in order to suit the sultan’s conve-
nienve — Every week, at the commencement :
of the Wednesday market, a public proclama- :
tion is made, declaring the value of the coin
for that day and week. When the sultan
expects to receive tribute or duty, he |
announces the currency “below par ;’ and

when he is about to make purchases, he al-j
There are } y°

ways raises the value of the coin.
speculators here in this stock, as in
countries; and they have “Lk “ ? =~
ivenland se wall ag i

chang ee

We should searecly ikke em wy
gun. There are two principal annoyances,
thieves and insects. ‘To the former we have
already adverted in the case of the ladies;
und the gentlemen do not seem to fall far be-
hind. When one of the sultans wanted a
present equal in value to what had been
given to his rival, and the stranger rather
demurred to this imposition; he was inform-
ed that the sultan’s slaves were the most ex-
pert thieves in the world, and that if their |

a.

master gave the word ‘Forage,’ no walls}
could keep them out. This was a hint which

a
i means of th wr fragments. These large

her. of fae bo!

‘of coruposition powder-below it. Ifthe shell’

‘is desired toczplode tp one second
jing the gun the scooping is made on
iure 1 ; if in two seconds, on the figure 2,
; $9 on; ihe idea being that the sheils

‘description shall first strike the object simed
“tt and do excertion as a bali, and
.explede, sending the ‘bullets forward os if

‘fin. another cannon located st the poi
everything, even to the pockets of my trow-!

where the aight of the shell is arrested.

sucil of efgit or ter inches are filled with
powder only ani bursting, do execution by
shelis

are genela ¥ fixed by means ofa fuse ov

meal powcr, extending through a brass plug

screwed ‘to the mouth of the shell. In both
cases th. .as: ig fired by the ignition of the
charges ‘n the gun.

Spaxish Traprrs.—The following pas
sage, written by Lord Auckland, when Am-
Lassador at Madrid. some seventy years ago,
would scarecly require to be changed, were

. the date altered to the present time :

“Tf you go into a beokseller’s shop and
buy ten or twelve books. no inducement will

‘make him send them bome; and be will.
‘rather return my money to me.
;ant issent to buy twelve pounds of sagar,

the woman of the shop says, ‘Have you

If a serv

brought something to put it in? If the
servant answers ‘No,’ she quietly puts the

! sugar away, and wishes you a geod morning,
‘for it is not her business to furnish paper ;
jand this same indifference goes through every

| brave, “trade. One of my servants, afew
2 - .
das Eos wade

fans , ..

them, it ¥.

If you want .

the plate at Ide.

it to one part of 3,

to another to be gilde

given to you with pe.

poor creatures who are .
money, which they will not 1.
will not go one step out of th.

iand the consequence is, that ag

the business is done by bad man
here, for the prejudices are such that -

could not he neglected. But who were these
rival sovereigns? They were father and son,
mutually hang cach other, placed at the!
head of a political party. Their love and!
piety may be gathered from this circumstance, |
that they both applied secretly to the for: |
cigner for a “poison whieh would not lie ;”
and the son sent three female staves asa bribe
Expressing abhorrence of such proceedings
“Thad the satisfaction of hearing meself, and
all my countrymen, pronounced too. sa hun +
dred tines over.”

The country of Loggun swarms with mos-
quitees and ether noxious insects. This
wight be expeeted from its situation, amid
the weody marshes of a river ina tropical
climate, ‘The weneer is that anv town should!
he built in sueh a situation. Fer the vesi-;
dents themselves are xo troubled with mos:
quitees, that they often. require to ANE their:
Its with dense smoke from wood fires, to}

vot a litle respite during the hours of sleep. |

Young chickens are sometimes destroyed be- |
fore they are properly fledged, by the stings |
of mosquitoes ; and a chief asserted that he
had lust two ehildven, who were literally
sting to death by these venomous insects.
Strangers ean seareely endure to remain in
the place at some seasons of the year, The
malaria proceeding from large stagnant pools
whieh ahound in the district, is almost as fa-
tal in produeing fevers, as the insects are
sure to cause restlessness, The capital is
rather better situated in this respect. than
some other towns ; but it is bad enough.

[to BE CONTINCED,)

Lees,

ants have little encouragement.

Sy. Herexa.—This island, celebrated a.
the prison of Napoleon Bonaparte, lies in

‘about 15° South and 5° West, and sue

tains a population of nearly 4000 persons,

iineluding a regiment of British soldiers.
The principal and only port where vessels

ean obtain anchorage, is Jamestown, Vessels
on their vay to and from the Eset Indiesaud
Chin. frequently stop here to replenish their

jwater, which is brought off in “tanks,” or

lighters, and is the staple ofthe island. The
native inhabitants (Yamstock), being a mix-

ture of Chinese and African negro, are an,

indolent and filthy race, tuo lary to work for
anything beyond a living. The female por
tion of the population’ are nearly all the
women of the suldiers, living in miserable
hovels, four ard five ina rom. Provisions
of all kinds are high, and scarce, fresh beef
and pork of an inferior quality being 30
cents a pound.” Vegetables are brought
from the Cape and Little Fish Bay, the
island not producing enough ‘-
garrison and the wants of

dents. Potatoes are sold by ciguy os che
rate‘pf 22. shillings per hundred pounds.
Tho Wer is sold by the ton, and no yeesel
can obtain a supply until after she bas an:
vr which a fee is changed by the

Trg Pin or
relates that ar
chronicled as
posing journal, a.
an instance of his b.

“He was lately see

oy
iy

_
on seldoin think of
thd shadows

“ng fore

the great event: of
tall across. their

from their eyes 4
whose living smiles we
existence. Death is th we

life, and the cold thoughe a the tos
skeleton of ao feasts. We do not want to
go throug! she dark valley. although its pas-
sage may cad to paradise sand with Charles
Lamb, we donet want fe ie down in’ the
mukly grave, even with kings and prinees
for our bed fellows. But) the fit ot nature
There is ne appeal trem the

We flour

ta

is inex able.
aveat law whieh doom us te dust.

ists atl we fade as the leaves af the forest;

aml the flewers that bleow and wither ina
day have neda trailer hope upen lite than
the mighte tmonarel that ever shook the
earth with his footsteps, Gorevations 36

countless avaltitude whieh fils the world to-
day, will Gaimorrow disappear as the foot-
steps on the shore"

When some people ake a givat deay
of yeu ver iay be sam they ment co uake
a deal out af you.

GE, MO Gm

FStovMs,

lewalking up and down

i room, reading hia prayers: .

rsors of old, whe prayed in th

‘oe sean of mien.”
“seperally? =

i Man.
ithe puny,
jt prissage
Penmey ‘
ta Hon.

i read the

Pwire’ whieh

My pin to plere
Tow many t
ited ont of smal:
‘that!

© Tie Great Ma
whe ehooses the righ
_tion ; who tvsists the s
within and without; wi
Sbuntens — cheerf"
1 wast fray
Siewns oo. whose re
tne anton Gs)
| Chanaing.

wa

noply. the
St.

SOUTER ERENT TA

Copa a

Be ae eae

SE a

Vent

aan

rs4

~t

YEAR NUMBER,

BOSTON : THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 1862.

WHOLE NUMBER, 133.

——

The Upper Branches.

Beauty and Love.
(YR ANSLATED FROW THE UERSTAN |
Before eternity to time had shranken,
Phe Eviend deep in bis glorious self was sunken,

Around his charms a firm-bound girdle hovered :
No one che lonely path to him discovered.

A ivres held he to cach wondrous feature,
But shaved the vision’s bliss with noc a erenture,

ty eradding Nanghe's ales alone he tacked hit,
No playinate’s face er camnbols sportive mocked
him.

Then vese he up—switt vani died all resistance —
And gave the boundless universe existence.

Now Beauty, sun-elear, front his riht side beam.
eth;

Love, moowlike, quickly from his left side gleam.
eth.

Yoses,
Leve fans a tire from which no heart reposes, '
Borween them glows a league which forms no cin-
dee,
Bat trot all Beauty’s vood creates Love's tinder.

When Beauty “inidst hor snaring ringlets lieth,
Then Love the heart within those tair locks diet,

Aaest ix Beauty, Leve the brooding linnet:
Aaine is Beanty, Love the diamond in it.

Fiem God's two sides they came, twin emanation, *
‘Po chase and woe cach other throug creation.

Batin each atem's point, both, clasping, enter,
And constitute all being's blissful centre.

(wom > -

Power of a True or Falso Faith.
[TRANSLATED FROM THE PERSIAN.)

When man in error gropes,
Night wnder night still opes:
Goodness is horrer then,
And demons dwell in nen,
But when he thinks aright,
A fount ofdazeling light
From evil’s darkness bursts,
To satiate his chirsts.
Aftaith ef trath and love
Meits hell in heaven above;
A faith of lies, hate, woe,
Sinks heaven in heil below,
Whoever thinks with God
Doth grasp nate’s mighty rod.

——-- 4 woe

Crown and Cross.
It scemed a crown of cruel thorn,
Tr seemed a cross of bitter seorn;
T bentomy suffering brew to wear,
T raised my feeble arms to bear.

T might have cast away the crown, i
But hands [loved had crushed it down, j
And pressed its stinging points of pain,
‘Through quivering nerve and bursting vein,

I mizht have shunned the cross to bear, ,
Bur One—the Maker—placed it there; ‘
And, failing the appointed task, l
No uther service [night ash, '

«As on ny weary way [ passed, {
Ready to faint and fall at last, |
The Barden under which [ bent, |
Became the stat on which Tleant.

«And blossoms for the thorns had place,

Upon my head a crowning grace,

That brought me through the burning hours,
The ean) and hoaling each Of Aawan>

aseaee Pee teen oe MU he

My crown was Love maintained thro’ loss,
And Truth upheld thro’ scorn my cross.
—Englishman’s Journal,

—————- - toe

The Little Boy that Died.

Tam all alone in my chamber now,
And the midnight: hour is near,

And the faggot’s crack, and the clock’s dull click, !

Are the only sounds [ hear;

And over my soul, in its solitude,
Sweet fcelings of sadness wlide;

For my heart and eves are full when I think
Of the little boy that died.

I went one night to my father’s house—
Went home to the dear ones all,
And softly TL opened the carden-gate,
Aud sofdy the door of the hall;
Mv mother came to meet hor son—
She kissed me and then she sighed,
Am her head felon my neck, and she wept
For the little boy that died.

T shall miss him when the flowers come
In the garden, where he played ;

[ shall miss him more by the fireside
When the towers are all decayed ;

T shall see his toys and bis empty chair,
And the horse he used to ride,

And they will speak with a silent speech
Of the little bow that died.

We shall go home to our Father's house—
‘To our Father’s honse in the skies,

Where the hope of souls shall have no blight,
Our love no broken ties.

We shall roam on the oanks of the river of peace, of nature.

And bathe in its blissful tide,
And one of the joys of life shall be
The litthe boy that died.
—Dr. Chalmers.

4 wee->-
To My Wife.
Come to me, dearest—['in lonely withont thee—
Day time and night time Pm thinking abont rhe

Night time and day dine in dreains [ behold thee—

Unwelecome the waking which ceases to fold the
Cormne to me, darting, inv sorrows to lighten,
Come in thy beauty, to bless and to brighten,
Come in thy womanhood, meckly and lowly,
Come in thy lovingness, queenly and holy!

Swallows will flit round the desolate rnin,
Telling of Spring, and its jovous renewing;

And thoughts of thy love, and its manifold treas-

sure,

Are circling my heart with a promise of pleasure.

O Spring of my spirit! O May of my bosom!

Shine out on my soul till it bourgeon and blossom;

The waste of my life has a rose-root within it,
And thy fondness alone to the sunshine can win

Figure that moves like a song through the even
Features lit up by a reflex of Heaven—

Smiles comipg seldom, but childlike and simple,
And opening their eyes from the heart of a dimple
O, thanks to the Saviour, that even by seeming

Is left to the exile to brighten his dreaming.

You have been glad when you knew IT was glad-

dened;
Dear, are you sad now, to hear [am saddened ?
Our hearts ever answer in tune and in time, love,

As ovtave to octave, and rhyme unto rhyme, love.

T cannot but weep but your tears will be flowing;

You cannot stnile but my check will be vlowing—

T would not die without you at my side, love,
You will not linger when [ will have dicd, love.

Come to ine, dear, ere [ die of my sorrow;
Rise on my gloom like the sun of tomorrow,

Strong, swift, and fond as the words which [ speak,

Jove,

With asong on your lip, and a sinile on your cheek,

love;
Come, for my heart in your absence is weary—
Haste, for ny spirit is sickened and dreary;

Come to the arms which alone should caress thee,
Come to the heart which is throbbing to press thee.

The Economy of Human Life.

No. XXVi.—-Sincerity.
O thou who art enamored with the beauties

Truth, and hast fixed thy heart on the simplicity |
of her charins, hold fast thy fidelity unto her, and | SHC.
forsake her not; the constancy of thy virtue shall ; their rever

crown thee with honor,

The tongue of the sincere is rooted in his heart;

hypocrisy and deceit have no placo in his words.

He blusheth at falsehood, and is confounded; |

but in speaking the truth he hath a steady eve.

He supportech as aman the dignity of his char- ;
acter; to the arts of hypocrisy he scorneth to stoop. |

He is consistent with himself; he is never e1
barrassed; he has courage in truth; but to lie he
afraisl.

the words of his mouth are the thoughts of his
heart

Yet with prudence and eaution he opencth his
lips; he studieth what is right, and speaketh with
“discretion,

He oadviseth in tiendships he reproveth with
freedoms amd whatsoever he promiseth, shall sare:
Iv be performed.

Bart the heart of the hypocrite is bid in his breast,
He masker his words in the semblance of tuath,
while the business of tis Hite is only to deceive,

Ile langheth in sorrow; le weepeth in joy; aud
pthe words of his mouth have ne interpretation.
‘He worketh inthe dark as amole; and fincieth
She is sate: buthe blandereth into light; and is ex-

posed to fall view with lis dirt on his lead,
He passeth his days in perpetual constraint; his
tonene and his heart are forever at Vvarice,

He dabereth forthe character of a righteots min;
and hageeth himself in the thoughts of his cunning,

O fool, fool! the pains which thou takest to hide
“what thea art, are inore than would make thee

what thon wouldst: seem; the ehildren of wisdom
shalbimeck at thy cuaning; and when thy disguise
is stvipped off, the finger of derision shall point
» thee tosvorn.
When Beauty's flame lights up the cheek’s red |

Che Lain,
CTIEE APRICANS AT HOMES

BY REVOR. M. MACBRATR, M.A.

CHAPTER NTU.
Our Situation--4 new Region, Baghirmi — Legions of Wortus
Army of Black Ants—Mascena--The Pakice- Sultan --

‘Tribute in Shives)Pritmphal Procession and Captives -

Waday > Wara Caravans Co Darfur Nubian Shives
Cobbée  Sharpers ‘Phe Sultan Seunaae - Phe bing’s
Cut-Throat Garb-- Harem) Stranze Notions of Beauty. -

Change of Government --Rerbers---Fenmile Decoy s--N abi-
The Simooin- Catastrophe Abyssinia - Gon
King-- His The People --
About: the ‘Rowan Was Nebue
A Monkish Ning -Hlow to fill the
-Squab-

an Desert
dace The
Eating a live Bulleck

forteer Grandeur

vhadnesgar a Saint 1%
Uxehequer) Fer my Lite --Credulity ofa Lady
bling --The Source of the Nile Late Revolution.

After these exeursions about the Lake
Chad, we must proceed eastward. But
fore entering anew kingdom, and in’ seme

he-

“respects a new country, let us jrtse for at

moment, to consider our position, and the
ground which we have traversed.
We have passed through a vast extent of

“inhabited country from the western coast of

Africa, all more or less civilized. The semi-
civilization of Senegambia merges into a

‘higher type of refinement when we reach the

Niger ; and this continues along a line of
* ’ . . . oO
midland towns, lying within a narrow belt of

-datitude, until we reach Kooka, and the Lake

Chad. This improvement. in arts: and man-

ners (we cannot say morals, except as to ’

freedom from drunkenness, ) is owing to the
presence and influence of the Moors and Ma-
hometanism. We have looked at the Moors
and Arabs in their own desert homes, to the

north of this belt; and we have found them :

harsh, wild, and eruel ; inferior to the cen-
tral Negroes who have embraced Islamism,
and who trafic with Barbary. Glancing at
| the south of this belt of towns, wo have seen
| the pagan tribes merge gradually into. barba-
itism ; a fact which was strongly marked in

ween GE auiger, cUELUL at Uk

Jl VUydge ‘
/ cursions to Mandara and Adamava.

He is far above the meanness of dissimulation;

dr
that his august features are not visible.
seems a yery unsatisfactory, mode of presen-

UA |

*; Lake Chad, again, is inhabited in its

islands by the wildest savages.

Its northern

| border is overrun by Arabs, who also belong |

‘to the little desert.

On the southern bor- !

‘der, as we leave Bornu, we return towards

‘barbarism ; with a partial exception in| Log-

- oun and one or two towns on the ecaravan-

D
; route to the Mast.

No the south of this latitude, is a vast ter-

i vitory little explored, consisting of more that

i!

: twenty degrees of latitude, and as many of

i longitude.

Wandering tribes of Arabs rove

‘in the north parts of this region; and the |
i pagan natives are ina state of utter sav-

agism.

_ principally desert. Tibbu

Kast of the Shary isan iminense country,
Arabs dwell in!

the northern half, until it becomes utterly |

‘uninhabitable.
‘fruitful parts of the south.

Pagan savages live in’ the’
But we can find

<a passage through it, traversed uy caravans,
;to Darfur and Nubia, and thence to Egypt

or Arabia.

{wide but more rapid than’ the Shary.

We now cross the Logon, a river not so
Its:

water is beautifully clear; not a ripple disturbs

‘its surface.

Here is the richness and silence
A. crocodile slides into the stream

as you approach; und a_ hippopotamus,
which has heen feeding on the grass, plunges

into the water.

Again, all is quiet, till you

hear the leaping of fish, or the serecching of

a hawk overhead.

We have now passed the .

i boundary which separated us from east Ne- |

C3

eC; :
*s because near the river.

groland, and are in the country of Baghirmi,
‘Che first portion of this territory is fertile,
Herds of cattle

i range through the swampy meadows, or wade ;
in the water; the mavaboo stands “like an
‘old man, its head between its shoulders ;””
ithe pelican, the white ibis, and the azure-

colored dedegame, are secking their prey :!
_ ducks of many species skim the surfice of
‘the water; and countless birds of bright
‘ plumage, of many kinds and sizes, sport in!

jt, the air. A few hamlets of men peep through |
"the trees.
— But Dr. Barth found that the heart of’

man was far from being in unison with this

rich and peaceful panorama of nature.—

- When he arrived on the east side of the.
-river, the Sultan of Baghirmi was absent on

a warlike expedition ; and the mind of the i

governor was so poisoned with suspicions,
through the report of some Arab travellers :

latter was forbidden
; country.

; who had preceded the Huropean, that the
to advance into the:
He was bandied about from yil-

‘lage to village near the river, and at last:
made a close prisoner, tll permission was

given to go to the eapital.

‘ from enemies.

The country had, indeed, suffered much
After many successful con: -

. flicts with the encroaching Iclattas, it had
succumbed to its eastern neighbor, the Sul- ;

1 tributary.

; and insects.
of abound in

| fat.

*Tho full title of this hook is:

‘ Time of Mungo Park to Che Present Day.

ne

is | Grammars, &e, London: Longman, Green,
: Roberta. 1861"

- tan of Waday, who plundered it of its wealth, |
i carried off many of its people, and made it}
Tn addition, it. was now suffer. |
‘ing from drought and the ravages of worms
Two or three sorts of worms
millions, and consume inuch of!
ithe produce of the people’s labor, who get |
ige by feasting upon the invaders |
j themselves when they have become large and :
As to the white and black ants, they

t
t

‘rhe Africans at Home. |
| Reinga Popular Description of Africn and the Africans, con- |
densed from the Accounts of African Travellers from the
By the Rev. R.
M. Macbrair, M. A., Author of tho Mandingo and Fools
Jongman and |

are like one of the plagues of Exypt; for it
sects almost impossible to presere any thing
from their ravages, An assault hy aan army:
of the large black ant is thus described: 7

“Toa thick uninterrupted dine about) an!
inch broad, they one morning came suddenly |
marching over the wall of my courteyard 3
and entering the hall which formed my resi- |
dence by day and night, they made straight ;
for ny store-reom ; but unfortunately, my:
couch being in their way, they attacked my
on person most fiercely, and soon obliged §
me to decamp. We then fell upon them, |
Killing those that were straggling about, fora- |
ging, and Iurning the chief body of the,
ary as itcame marching along the path. :
But fresh legions came up, and tt took us at:
least two hours, before we could fairly break |
the lines and put the remainder of the enemy |
to flight.”

Yet these ants have their use. They
cleanse the huts of the negroes by devouring
refuse, and killing all kinds of vermin, not
exeepting mice. ‘The stores of eorn which
they Jay up for future use are sought out |
and plundered hy the poor people. — Differ-|
ent species of the ant tribe, black, red, and |
white, fight with and devour one another, |
so that their intestine wars tend tu keep
down their numbers.

We are now prepared to look at Magsefia, |
the capital of Baghirni. tt has a ruinous;
appearance ; indeed, the walls are in such a!
condition, that the ates appear to be only}
of nominal use. The houses are. of clay, ;
thatehed with grass, and of frail construe:
tion, so that they do net seem to he proof’,
against a violent storm. You aay) go. to!
market any day during some hours of the;
morning and afternoon, and you will find a;
pretty goad supply of onious, beans, eround-
nuts, milk, and red pepper, with a few sheep
nd cattle. Beads trom Burope are brought
here in large quantities, and are retailed in
the adjacent petty states,

{

Here is the palace,—a_ large, rectangular!
court, having other courts within it, some of;
which are fall of huts. As the sultan is said ;
to have between three and four hundred
wives, each of whom has her own nest, con-
structed after her own taste, the agglomera-
tion of these dwellings would present a sin-
gular appearance toa travelle:, if he could
gain admission into the women’s quarter of!
the roval residence. And we can imagine
the fright which must ensue from the fall of
some of these frail tenements during a storm
—an accilent which sometimes happens,
filling the royal precinets with an uproarious
noise of female voices, as if an enemy were
storming the town.

Here, as at Loggun, a stranger must ad-
ess the king, seated behind a screen, so

Tt

HAUION, WuL CUYUELLE HIUSE be preserve iu
every place. After receiving your presents,
the sultan would probably offer in) return a
handsome female slave ; as this is the most
valuable commodity in these regions. — If
she-be refused, he would send you a number
of shirts, which you could dispose of in’ the
market. ‘The tribute which the sultan pays
to the King of Waday, every third year,
consists of a hundred male slaves, thirty
handsome female slaves, a hundred horses,
and a thousand shirts, with ten female slaves,
four horses, and forty shirts, to the inspector
of the province. In order to pay this de-
mand, and also to satisfy the Sheik of Bor-
nu, le levies a similar impost on a number
of pagan tribes whom he has subjugated.
‘Thus slaves form the larger currency, and
shirts the small currency of the kingdom !
All foreign supplies come through Waday or
Bornu; the desert to the north being too
difficult for caravans to cross.

Baghirmi is nominally Mahometan. — Be-
tween two and three hundred years ago Ab-
dallah introduced Islamism, and extended
the bounds of the kingdom. Yet, though
mosyttes are reared and the forms of Mahom-
etan worship are kept up, the hearts aud
manners of the natives have not yet heen
converted, ‘Phe language is similar to that
of Kooka. ‘The marriage tie is held ina
very loose way; divorces are easily made ;
and some of the people contract matches
merely for a limited period.

The sultan is returning in triumph after
a campaign against some pagan tribes!
His procession exhibits the characteristics of
barbaric pomp and pride. The lieutenant-
governor rides first, surrounded by a troop
of horsemen. Next comes the darma, be-
hind whom a long spear of peculiar figure is
horne, connected with some religious super-
stiticn. = The commander-in-chiet_ follews,
and immediately behind him the sultan, ona
grey charger, dressed ina war-cloth. Ile is
covered with a yellow hernouse, aud is shaded
hy two umbrellas, one green and the other
yellow, held over him by slaves. Six slaves
having their right arms clad with iron, fan
his majesty with ostrich feathers fastened
on poles, Five chiefs and other princes
ride beside him. Some are clothed in ber-
nooses, some in black shirts, and some in
blue ; their hands are generally uncovered.
After this motley group is the war-camel, on
which a drummer is mounted, beating two
kettle-drums, fastened one on each side of
the animal. Near him are three mounted
musicians.

The next part of the provession ineludes
a long line of the sultan’s favorite coneubines
on horseback, dressed in black, each having
a slave on either side, ‘The baggage camels
follow, and the infantry bring up the rear.
When the monarch enters the town, after
some days spent in the camp, the principal
captives are led in tirumph in the procession,
and are then subject to the insults of the ha-
rem, after which they are made eunuchs or
put to death.

As Baghirmi is chiefly a flat country in-
tersected hy streams, it is rich in natural
productions, ‘I'he soil is partly lime, partly
sand. The people chiefly live on Negro
millet (penrisefien), but also grow sorghum
and beans (sesamunr) with some ground-
nuts, water-melons, and onions. ‘They eat
grasses, as the pou Abyssinia, and tho leaves
of certain trees which are nutritious. Rice
is hero a wild plant. Tho natives rear a
little cotton and indigo for their own use,

monkey: bread, and syeamore. ‘The whole
population has been reckoned ata inilltion
and a halt, of whom many are slaves. ‘They
have few firearms or bows, but chiefly use
the spear anda kind of band-bill.

We’ should have no disposition to pass
through the wilds of Africa east of Baghir-
mi. Native traders and pilgrims perform
that long journey in caravans, and according
to their acount are subject to many hard-
ships on the road, Sul, it is nothing like
crossing cither the Great or Little Desert of
the north. For here are fertile spots and
onses at no great distance from one another,
where water and shelter may be had, and
provisions may be obtained from wandering
Arabs.

The first country is Waday, of which the
sapital used to-be Wara; but a late sultan
changed it for sceurity to Abeshr, situated
ina desert place, in the tribe of the Kelin-
ven, It is a wild, strage¢ling kingdom,
nominally extending from 15° to 28° of
east longitude. ‘The country is mostly
level, interspersed with barren mountains,
and the northern portions are very desert.
A. caravan proceeds at the rate of about
ten miles a day, and its journey to Darfur
has been thus described by pilgrims :—
From Wara, you travel over rocky hills and
a wide wilderness for seven days, when you
will reach Doomta, 2 frontier town of Dar-
fur, Your next march of eight days lies
through Waday Bareh, a thickly peopled
valley, to Kebkabiyeh, a good town of the
Jellaba, with clay houses and a market.
About eight days more would bring you to
the eapital of Darfur, the route to which is
partly through a wilderness inhabited by the
Jelluba.

Where the people of this region are not
Arabs, they are Negroes of the complete Ne-
gro type, living in the simplest and rudest
forms of life, yet not so much savage as un-
civilized. It is chiefly from the neighboring
districts, that those slaves are procured whom
the traveller has seen brought down the
river in cargoes to Meypt for sale. They
are short in stature, dumpy, flat-nosed, thick-
lipped, woolly-hended, black as a coal, al-
most naked, with little thought and little
care.

Cobbé is generally ealled the capital of
Darfur, though the king usually resides a
little way off. But native and foreign met-
chants have their residence sn this town, and
with their numerous slayes form the bulk of
its inhabitants. ‘Lhe whole population is
about six thousand. ‘They have a mosque,
and profess to be Mussulm-n, But come!
take a peep within one of iese mud walls,
which inclose some mud h +; and you may

see men and women sitti
of booza, a fermented siq or made from
dhoora like that drunk by th Nee

and they have fine trees, the tamarind, palm,

over their eups

wea. Ny in SCT Ved “1G
the number of wives preset ay the Ko-
ran; but indulge in polygs..., 0 the extent
of their means.

If you had goods to dispose of in Cobbé,
you would require all your wit, and even
nore to prevent yourself from being flecced.
There being no circulating metium, trade is
conducted by barter, in which a_ practised
native will always get the advantage of a
stranger. Nor would your property be safe
at any time out of your sight. Indeed, the
eharacter of the people is wholly bad, being
roguish and licentious in the extreme.

Suppose we wero admitted, with Mr.
Browne, to an audience of the sultan. We
find him seated on what must be called a
throne, a bank spread with small Turkey
carpets, and covered with a canopy of foreign
light stuffs. Behind him is a file of guards
armed with spear and shield, each having a
black ostrich feather in his cap, Some chief
men sit on either side of the throne, at a
little distance, whilst a crowd of spectators
and petitioners fill the space in front. A
trumpeter of the king’s praises stands on
his left hand, ever and anon reminding the
people, lest they should forget that he is a
person not to be despised: “See the bul
falo, the offspring ofa buffalo! a bull of
bulls! the elephant of’ superior strength !
the powerful sultan Abd-el-rach-man-el-rash-
id!” So that physieal strength, not wis-
dom or goodness, is the great boast of a
Darfurian monarch !

His majesty is a merehant on his own ac-
count, speculating in gools bronght by the
caravans. ‘These are sometimes large, mum-
bering two thousand camels ; for Cobbé is
on the line of route between the interior of
Africa and all eastern places, as Sennaai and
Abyssinia, Nubia and Egypt, and Mecea by
Suakem and Jidda. It has, therefore, its
full share of trafic, on which it principally
depends.

‘The king is also a nominal husbandman ;
for when the annual rains introduce the sow-
ing season, he goes out into the field with
his attendants, and with his royal hand
makes the first holes in the ground. Millet
is chiefly grown; which being made into
flour and boiled, is eaten with milk, or with
the juice of a bitter herb. Melons, gourds,
Cayenne pepper, tobacco, and a little wheat
are also raised. ‘The tamarind, palm, and
syeamore trees grow in favorable situations.
All the wild beasts which we have met with
in the interior infest tho thinly peopled plains
of Darfur, and prowl about the villages, to
make a prey of the cattle, of which the peo-
ple have abundance. Gold and copper are
found in this region.

It is a toilsome journey of more than four
hundred miles, through a barren district,
from Cobbé to Sennaar on the banks of the
Nile; but when this is achieved, the great
span of Africa has been nearly traversed.
The town of Sennaar depends on trade, and
is therefore better built and more refined than
other places in the neighborhood. ‘Tho
houses are made of clay mixed with straw.
The best have two stories and a flat roof, and
tho floors are carpeted. ‘Tho climate is un-
healthy, though the soil is fertile. ‘l'ho
horsos and cattle aro very fine. A nominal
Mahometanism prevails.

Ono of the most singular institutions of
this country in former times was the frail
tenure of royal power. ‘Lhe king appeared
to bo a mere puppet, set up to amuse the
people, but entirely controlled by the officers
of the court. A council of thoso dignitaries

to its own vagaries.

™ ondy, which »eo7 te ba a avast clew

could deerce that it was no longer for the
public good that the reigning sovercign should
continue to exist; on which, he was put to
death by an officer who lived with him, as
master of his houschold, and a relation of
his family. ‘his oflicer did not consider his
bloody function to be at all derogatory to his
dignity, nor even to interfere with his friend-
ship for the royal personage. When the
tine had come for the monarch to die, it was
better that his throat should be decently cut
by a friend in his own palace, than that he
should he murdered by a mob or an assassin.
So, also, with all the princes exeept the
eldest who ascended the dirone. ‘The public
advantage demanded their death ; and it was
well for it. to take place in a decent and or-
derly manner. Princesses were of no esti-
mation in Sennaar, and were not regarded
with more respeet than private women ; so
that when their father was killed, they were
very badly off, if not previously married.

A long shirt of blue cloth is the usual
clothing of the people both men and women ;
the men sometimes gird it round their waist
with a sash, ‘hey always go barefooted in
the house.

If you professed to be a merical man you
might, like Mr. Bruce, have obtained an in-
terview with the royal ladies. Te was first
introduced intoa large apartment full of black
women without apparel, excepting a narrow
piece of cotton round their waists.
these ladies in waiting led him into another
chamber better lighted than the former,
Here, ona bench covered with cloth. were
seated some of the king’s wives, clothed in
the blue shirt above mentioned. But they
also wore jewels of gold, large rings passed
through the under lip, the ears and the nose ;
with chains round the neck, the wrists, and
ankles. ‘Their features were quite distorted
hy these cumbereus ornaments, which pulled
the lip and cars out of shape and place. ‘The
most loved of these queens was in bulk like
an elephant. There was not a vestige of
real civilization in the regal pomp of Semnaar.
It is well done away with,

A great change has come over the gov-
ernment of Nubia and its adjacencics, since
Mehemet Ali took possession of it, and
made ita pashalic. ‘The pasha is in. rank
next to the viceroy of Egypt himself, and has
his seat of government in Khartum on the
Blue River, a little before it joins the White
River. Sennaar now receives an Egyptian
garrison of four or five hundred disciplined
troops; so that the wondrous accounts of
Burekhardt and others about it are anti-
quarian. Yet it is a pity that those accounts
should be wholly forgotten; as they show
some curiosities of human nature, when left

Ata great bend of the Nile, a little below

WU aleed ben ce ewen we nano eee dl?

Berbers. ‘his name is sometimes given to
any Nubian; but it properly belongs toa
small district consisting of a few villages in-
habited by Arabs of the tribe of Meyrefal.
A tall, slender, handsome set of people, are
these Berbers; of dark color; showing
nothing of the Negro shape or countenance,
except a little thickness of the upper lip.
Their hair is bushy, not woolly ; and they
have a beard under the chin, ‘They blacken
their eyes, to make them of-a-piece with the
rest of their appearance. Young girls wear
only a leathern girdle, a custom whieh pre-
vails in extensive districts of Africa; the
other natives have shirts or tunics.

These Berbers are a gay, frolicsome, and
treacherous people ; combining the fun of
the Negro with the eunning of the Arab.
‘They have been spoken of as full of all
wickedness; but are probably not worse
than other denizens of these regions, though
their Arab astutencss renders them more
elever in sin. A Berber makes a good
travelling servant, if you pay him well, and
irust him as far as you see him; and you

the usual run of Africans. In the enclosure
of their dwelling-place, most Berbers have
two apartments for the family, a third for a
storehouse, another for strangers, and a fitth
for public women. ‘The latter are accomo-
dated for a season in different families, and
so change ahout for the public eonvenience.
The inner court of the house is a place for
eattle and fodder, ‘The furniture is like
that found in the dwellings of Negroes or
Arabs. It consists of a few necessary uten-
sils, and a wooden frame covered with reeds
or strips of ox-leather, over which a carpet is
thrown, to serve asa sofa by day and a bed
hy night.

strangers by means of the public women
lodging in their houses. ‘These females
serve for decoys. When a Inckless wight
has been seduced by one of them, the master
of the house pretends that a relative of his
own has been dishonored, makes a great fuss
about the matter, and finally lets the stranger
off on payment of supposed damages. ‘This
decoying is more easily effected by means of
their drinking parties, in which they furnish
large quantities of booza, until most of the
guests are intoxicated.

The route through the Nubian desert to
Heypt is not so bad as most of those we have
deseribed. Stations and wells are more fre-
quent in these parts ; so that, with proper
preeautions, the journey may be made with-
out much difficulty or suffering. But Arab
guides sometimes wilfully deceive travellers,
‘and lead them out of the right way, that
they may make a gain of them, or plunder
their efiects in case of their perishing from
want. ‘Tho Simoom prevails here, like the
whirlwinds of sand we have already men-
tioned. When overtaken by this blast the
Arabs kneel down and wrap their faees in
their cloak, whilst their emnels turn round
and hold down their heads, ‘The great fear
is not of being poisoned, as Muropeans com-
monly think, but of being stifled by the sand.

But melancholy accidents sometimes hap-
pen in this desert; as may be seen from the
following account furnished by an Arabian
merchant who was travelling ina caravan.
Their guide left the proper traek in order to
avoid 2 notorious robber who infested tho
district, and in doing so lost his way. Tho

following affect.

One of |

i
'
1
|

‘the beast to one of’ its branches,

i
'
|

|

|

j the man lay.

would not place more confidence than this in ;

‘The wily Berbers ave said to trick |

calamitous result-was given in words to the’

When we had performed five days’
journey in the mountains, our stock of water
was exhausted ; and we did not yet know
where we were in. the wide desert. We de-
termined, therefore, to go towards tho set-
ting sun, hoping thus to reach some part of
the Nile. No relief appeared ; and during
a march of tio days without water, one mer-
chant and fifteen slaves sunk down exhausted
and died, Another, feeling that he could
not hold out much longer, and hoping that
his camels might find the road to water bet-
ter than men could, had himself ticd on one
of his beasts, and let them’ take their own
way ; but we never heard more of them, and
they doubtless perished. After another day’s
journey, we came within sight of a mountain
which somo of us knew, but neither we nor
our camels could travel farthor. We laid
ourselves under a rock to obtain a little
shelter from the san, and sent two of our

strongest servants and camels to go and,

search for water. Our existence depended
upon their success.

The two men pushed forward, but before
they reached the mountain where they hoped
to find'a well, one of them ‘succumbed and
fell from his camel. _ Unable to speak, -he
waved his hand: for his companion té leave
him to his fate, and to hasten onward. ‘The
other knew the country well, having fre-
quently passed that way ; but his cyesi¢ht
failed from thirst, and he lostthe road. Iex-
hausted, he sat down under a tree, and tied
Lhe camel

i smelled water at a distance, broke its halter,
land set off for the spring, which proved to be

half an hour’s journey from the spot where
Knowing the instinct of the
animal, and assured that it was hastening to
water, he got up and tried to follow its steps,
but soon fell down and swooned. <A
Bedouin from the neighborhood passing by,
and seeing him in this condition, threw some
water on his face and revived him. When
he was restored, they hastened to the well,
filled their skins, and returned to the place
where we were lying. They fourd us still
alive, though we had given ourselves up to
death. Water quickly revived us, and after
a short time we were able to pursue our
journey, and we reached our destination in
safety. We gave the Bedouin a slave for
his trouble in saving our lives.

Instead of turning to the south from Sen-
naar, in order to have a veep at Nubia, we
might have proceeded eastward with a cara-
van to Abyssinia. As this is the only inde-
pendent country of native Africans who have
retained a profession of Christianity, it may
be well to see if their religion has done-them
any good, and made them superior to Mus-
sulmen and Pagans. We fear, alas! that

they are no better than their neighbors.
. -f@ 2.8 1,

TM ale wali sa maser farmalie--

sak Beery pw BIRT aves “aot, UL woien

ecclesiasticism. It much resembles the
Greek church in its forms, and its utcer want
of religious principle. The laws of God
seem to he entirely disregarded, and the
morality enjoined by Scripture to be quite
ignored.
nominal Christians bitterly opposed to each
other, and the country has been torn by
civil and religions broils, which have threat-
ened to exterminate the population.

Even since Mr. Bruce visited Abyssinia,
i where le was detained for some years, it
: seems to have lost much of its power and
| barbarie splendor. Yet it has not improved

in simplicity. In Gondar, the capital,
haughty kings used to imitate many of the
'eustoms of the ancient Persians, and they
| possessed a large degree of authority which
[has passed away with its attending pomp.
| Fifty years of civil wars and constant broils

whatever. Yet tenacious ; it has na_visatie.
we shall not enter, nor even describe’ tlicl¥

There are three principal sects of

elective in the rofal line ; 80 that the eldest
son of the lute monarch did not necessarily
succeed his father. This was in order to
save the country from an infant king.

The morals of the palace were imitated by
the people. They -had no marriage form, and
no matrimonial bond, but that of coneent, for
as long a time as the parties. pleased. The
men used not to market, or carry bread or
water, yet they washed all clothes, even those
of the women. The women were covered
from the chin to the ground, it being a dis-
grace to have even their hands: or feet seen
in public. Will you keep this in memory,
and then receive, if you can, this strange ac-
count of a bacchanalian revelry, which Mr.
Bruce describes as a real occurrence !

The guests are assembled in a quict hall.
A living bullock is’ hound and laid down
outside the door. A. slight incision is mado
in its neck to save the letter of the law, that
its blood must fall on the ground. The skin
is stripped from its buttock, and thin pieces
of ficsh are cut out, without touching any of
the great arteries. ‘Chese are carried into
the chamber where the guests are seatéd at
a table, one gentleman between two' ladies
A number of thin cakes are provided for
every guest. . Then cach of. the ladies takes
a delicate slice of quivering fiesh, and wrap-
ping it up in a cake, thrusts it like a cartridge
into the mouth of the gentleman next to her,
on cither side ; so that cach man is served in
turn by two Indies. When he is crammed,
he performs the same good office for his fair
companions. ‘Then they drink together, and
give themselves up to all licentiousness such
as cannot be here méntioned.

Oh! Mr. Bruce ; was not this a caricature
of their revelries! bad jndeed, but not so
bad? We know that in hot countries, when
a killed animal is cold and Has lost the blood,
it becomes awfully tough ; and it is a fact
ihat Abyssinians eat raw meat, especially
beef steaks ; yet we are scarcely prepared to
receive al] this account, as easily as you rep-
resent the Abyssinians swallowing cartridges
of quivering flesh. We suppose you did not
see all this done with your own eyes; and
would you believe any thing that a native
said ? : .

A crowd of persons beset the royal resi-
dence early in the morning, erying for justice
from the King, to whom tuey appeal. Such
appeals are likely to be often made in a place
of such corruption as Gondar. Whether or
not his majesty satisfies them all, when he is
at leisure to attend to them, we cannot tell.
When there were'no real applicants for jus-
tice, fictitious ones used to be hired, and they
really cried out as if they were groaning un-
der oppression and wrong. The reason given

for this strange custom, was a fear Jest the
King should be melancholy,
Le va

from fecling —

°
ta Trretinn annac-

{Cit al0lic. vusive appeals pone
[nary enough, and Crm are SN) 301010084
Sfiiether it was hanging, crucifying, flaying,
or having the eyes torn out, and being driven
into the fields, to be devoured by wild beasts.
Let the dogs eat the bodies of criminals !

Gondar itself is situated on a hill, and
contains perhaps 10,000 inhabitants, for its
population is greatly reduced. Its houses
are round, built of stone and clay, and
thatched in form of a cone. The palace is
a large square edifice, the ruins of one built
by the Portuguese. A few of the rooms are
still tenantable, and huts are erected beside
‘them ; the whole surrounded by a stone wall
thirty feet high. The streets of the town are
very narrow, crooked, filthy, and often steep,
Las the city lies upon a rising ground.

The country is full of churches. The kings
have built many ; and others have been
erected by rich people, in the way of atone-
ment for their sins. They are generally situ-
ated on the top of a hill, and near a stream,

bs

‘with its neighbors, have greatly reduced the | to furnish water for the usual ablutions. They
i kingdom, and changed the customs of jare planted round with a kind of cedar, and

royalty.

Nighty years ago! What may not hap-
‘pen in eighty years? Even in the fifty
tyears which elapsed between the visit of
: Bruee and that of Dr. (now Bishop) Gobat,
t matters were greatly altered, and they are
jnow still more changed, The grandfather
j was quite a different personage from the
i grandson. It is curious, and it may be in-
strnetive, to observe the contrast. A right
royal despot was Mr. Bruce’s friend and de-
tainer. We shall take a peep into that
traveller’s book, and give a few cursory
notes of what was then passing in Gondar.
The crown was a kind of helmet, in the form
of a mitre, covering the forehead, cheeks, and
neck of the monarch.
gold and. silvér, of beautiful filligree work.
The king put it on himself, after anointing
‘his own head with olive oil. Te covered
his face in giving audiences and on other
public occasions, so that nothing but his
eyes were seen. Mystery inspires feclings
ofhomage! He never walked but on going
into church, when his guards possessed the
entrances and kept out all people, save two
officers on whom he leaned. He rode on
his mule into his palace, up stairs, and over
his Persian carpets, to the very foot of his
divan. Te had six noblemen of the bed-
chamber, and many other ofticers of state. It
was death to sit on the king’s seat. He ate
wheaten bread grown in a certain province
called the royal provinee.

Persons presented to the king prostrated
themselves before him. They fall on their
knees, then on the palm of their hands, then
stooped till their forehead touched the
grouni, and they lay there till told to rise.

strangers, who were allowed to salute tho
Abyssinian monareh in the same way as they
do their own sovereign. ‘To strangers of
note the king alloted a village or two, which
furnished them with supplies of food. He
sent for any woman he pleased to have,
and: made her his wife or concubine without
eeremony. But the chief wife alone was
queen. When he elected a lady to this
honor, the judge pronounced in his presence,
and on his behalf, that the king has chosen
his handmaid Itagho; then the crown was
placed on her head. As there are many
royal princes, and only one could succeed to
the throne, the rest were sent to a mountain;
where they were maintained at the public
expense. Tho crown was hereditary, but

Its exterior was of

This ceremony was mitigated in tho case of

: the tall ensso tree, which give them a pretly
:appearance. ‘They are circular in form,
thatched, and surrounded with a colonnade,
supported by wooden pillars. They are di-
vided in the interior, to imitate the old Jew-
ish sanctuary. You may enter barefooted,
that is, if you are pure; (which is not the
case with many men ;) otherwise you must
pray among the cedars. But when you go
in, take care that your shoes be not stolen by
the priests or monks, if they be worth steal-
ing. The walls are hung with pictures, or
daubs of saints. There are no images or
carved work; as this would be a breach
of the second commandment of the Deca-
logue, which is not supposed to be broken by
a worship of pictures.

The abuna‘or patriarch is, in some respects,
aman of authority, at least in religious mat-
ters. 1f any men come'to him, desiring to
be made monks, he gives the word of com-
mand, and they become monks without any
other ceremony. In the'same summary way
he makes priests and deacons. Besides these
ecclesiasties, there is a chief of the monks,
chief priests, and scribes or copyists. The
monks live in their own houses, built round
the church which they serve. The whole lot
of ecclesiastics are, with’ a few exceptions,
very ignorant and very stupid. Their great
delight is to wrangle about useless or contro-
verted points of religion. Poor Bruce was
almost losing the royal’ favor, because he
would not decide that Nebuchadnezzar was a
saint. ‘The ground’ for this supposed saint-
ship was the expression that he was God’s
“servant.”” The wrangles produce incessant
quarrels and excommunications, often fol-
lowed by bloody broils. The people are cir
cumcised on the eighth day.

The importance of the sovereign, and along’
with it the lordliness of the male sex, seem
to have been on the wane during the last
century, in Abyssinia. Dr. Gobat represents’
the grandson of the monarch who pleaded
for the saintship of Nebuchadnezzar, (and
whoni he scems'to have striven to imitate,)
as'an old man, living'in a plain way, in a lit-
tle cireular house; built amid the runs of the
ancient palace. Three large rooms, and
‘gome small ones, which remained of this no-
lo structure, were ‘full of dust and. filth.
His majesty contented himself with one chiamt-
bor, divided into two parts by a white cur
tan. But this king was a monk, who’ bad:
exchanged the cowl for the crown ;+ which
was a groat pity. The ignorant king asked

'

Jine and 2

YEAR NUMBER,

BOSTON : THURSDAY, FEBRUA
|

RY 6, 1862,

Let ug travel fora few minutes in) com-

WHOLE NUMBER, 134.

“O prise his gvodness with songs of thanksgiv-
Ne Liuedinate dy silence on the wonders of his

several toasts with water from the fountain, question, What do you want here ??—

think that ‘the Unyoro are a wide-sprecd

Che Alpper Branches,

_ . fever tecthy heart overdow with grautude and ae

Poems: From the Persian.

kKeowlodementy ter the languave of thy ips speak
pe and aderttion; let the actiens of thy Tite!

pia

T refuse te drink any more water, ‘They
say these savages pray over that hole every

the latter replied, “You must exeuse me if

“Hr'endship and. trade.”

A smile is the

pany with the tongue of Dilbo, a native of

answer, which is a sign that your head ix

sate on your shoulders, for you are ina lion’s

|

Sabba in Gnarea, who served Dr, Krapf in

people, composing a namber of independent
tribes, perhaps under different names, living

but probably ty the seul or third degree
of N. Jat. Captain Burton fe , with
co othe

much reason, that it cep

‘ t Ankobar, by order of the King of Shoa. | al 4 ‘
st shew thy love to his haw, . . | cena . ; Angobir, Dy ye NING OF Phoa. | about the northern parts of the Lake Nyan-| back porta of the “Momntaine 4 ”
TNE RELIGION OF THE NEAR. Phe Lentis jnstand righteous; and will judge Morning to the devil, and Tam afraid E feel: den. A motion of the hand is made for you; This man, according to his own tale, had | 2a or Victoria ; and it is be sated hd pe a
. . . oT . hy y tr ‘ : . . to . sy . . + fy Wy | 1 1 1 1 + 7 : im ,
bests ther a heart within chat bivate of thine? the earth wet cy od treth. ' In h’s horns in ny belly already from the great to retire, and t dinner is sent to you, in the | some experience of the countries south of Passing through them, we enter the power- | the range which gives birth do the Whae
Phen compass revervntly its sacred shrine: adh he estatuishad ins huws in coedness and mers | mee th: li cater whe rante | gh adi we . Ist) y onk rota iq ov, We o eh: . ; - 4 , , : 7 ™
2 For the true spirimal Caaha is the heart, exyyand shall he not punish the trinsgtessors theres | draught I that hellish Me : whieh | drank j Shape of a dish of shabty, consisting of cakes | Abyssinia. In his youth he had accompa | ful kingdom of Uganda, which lies under the | Nile.
: And ro proud pile of perishalty art. oft ; ; first. twas very cold; yet he crank a soaked in sour milk, seasoned with red pep- nied a band of slaye-hunters to Kaffa, and Fequator, and hag subdued the dependent The ordinary ava te VM led
4 When God entainad the pilerim rie, that sign _ think net, bold man! beeause thy panistinent | bumper to the health ot) the Minpress of | per and salt. mat and be thankful; and] thenee to. the neighborhood of the Dokos | Unyore who dwell its southe t J Dh Lak ~. ates,
Was meant te lead chy thought to dings i is delaved, that the arm of the Lent is weakened 5 | Russa get away as fast as y ‘an, lest the d *s| (al . a nj > Toa moment te oa At ie from the a <e S5 through
Ate aan Fe treads Gat round im vaua neither datter thyself with hepes Uiat he winketh ASI, get away as last as you can, lest the ¢ espot, 8 | Gtbout whom weshall presently speak. ) ‘

I In | Let us listen for a moment to an Arab
turn, an attack was imade on Sabha, when be | merchant, whilst he

was captured and sold at Agabja for forty ‘capital of Uganda
pieces of salt, and afterwards at Conan for t
sixty pieces. His price was raised at Rogaie
to eighty picces, and afterwards in Abeju to
ahundred. At last a Mahometan gave sil-

at thy doings, ; From Gondar, we might take an excursion | humor should change! He eares little for
,_llis eve pierweth the seervis of every hearts and) southeast to visit Shoa, if not afraid of mect-| human life.
he rmemberetiy them forever. toe . . . . : mr .

He respeeteth not the persons nor the stations of , lng the Rite of Dr. Krapf He tried to come! ‘The town of Tarar is about
aah hie? tthe low, the rich and tl nei the opposite direction, but found the route !and half
Shigh am . . Y rich g Y poor, a a ’

10 Scat ania tie flow, the rien and the poor, the | very difheult and dangerous ; aud was final

wise aud the ignorant, when the seut hath shaken , . : :
ly plundered of everything and made prison-

ud idly pain,
tye God thy heart. —best

Usukuma, ts Kazeh the primipal toma ff
Unyanyembe. You might be ine ty
find ench a thriving plac: in the midst d a
Savage region. ut it owes its prosperity ty
Arabs of the tribe of Omani, who have made
it a central depot of merchandize for this

tells ug of his visit to the

and its potent king.
“Kibuja ig not less than a day's journey in
length (!;) the buildings are of cane and rat-
tan. The sultan’s palace is at least 4 mile

lide’s dark

i Wasering steps chomch

a mile long
a mile wide, surrounded with an ir-
j regular wall of rough stones, ‘The streets
are narrow, encumbered with heaps of rub.

Ged sparrs the riches ofa thousand corfers,
eAud sais, ) My chosenis be bis heart who atfers.
N silver sevk Lo bur above

Nor soht nor ot the cumbions shackles of this mortal lite, shall |

long; and the circular huts, neatly ] i 3ripgi i rian

: wwe ar nto sof this mortal i, | ev vatly ranged | of Africa. Bringing their goode fran the
All the heart. and buy it with my fove: equally reveive from the sentence of God a just and er by a petty chief. He seems to have had! bish: f “Ens ee Sy tn A Thee . . . ’ y iDging £

Yeas one sal. contrite heart, whiell men despise, everlasting retribution according to their works. | ya petty e seems to have had bish ; for the dustman does not go his} ver for him in Aliwamba, to the amount of in line, are surrounded by a strong fence

eastern Coast oppoxite to Zamnbar, they end
them from Unyanyembe to the tribes already
noticed on the north, to the Lake Tangsnyika
on the west, and toa great many ines on
the south and southwest, incleding tees
around the Rakwa water or lake, which is

a harrow escape with his dite. Tt is ta be
"hoped that the “King of kings of Ethiopia?
' will keep a dighter rein over his vassals and place is famous for mosques and tombs of Ma-
' governors, than wes done by his weak prede- | hometan saints, showing that it was onee a
cessors Tn royalty, Tf so, travelling in Abys- | large and powerful city. The present popu-
sina may become safe, a new and excellent | lation may be estimated at S000 settled in-

rounds. ‘The hetter houses are sheds of two
stories; the rest are thatched huts. The

Then shall the wieked tremble and be afraid: but:
the heart of the righteous shall rejoice in his judy.
ment.

“Ol fear the Lord, therefore, all the days of thy
lites and walk in the paths which he hath opened
berore thee Let prudence admonish thee: let !
Fomperance restrain thee: det dustice guide thy :
hand, Benevolence warm thy heart, and Gratinule |

than my throne
EN

bined deerme Dpuize!
he,

twelve dollars; and a widow in Ankobar
transferred him to herself for fourteen. At

her death he became the property of her | strangers, and guards in hundreds attend
brother, whose goods were confiscated by the

rother, w Ithere at all hours, The harem contains
King of Shoa, who lent the lad to Dr. Krapf. j

Xing ¢ : : 3000 souls,—concuLines, slaves, and chil-
Such is part of the history of a slave! What ! dren.

Mow

nt

Which has only four gates. ” Bells at the sev-
eral entrances announce the approach of

not iowiv of

though lowly,
he Hoty.
AIT DINASTE

iis such a guess”

THE skCRLT OF PIETY.

umst saint ine ined,
- ae

venetiove he poure
cl} 7

isterness of douls,
to sv athe,

to Heaven inspire thee with devotion. These shall
Stve thee happiness in chy prosent state; and bring |
to the mansions of eternal felicity in the par-
Sot Gand

This is the true Eeonomy of Human Life.

Che Lalu,

thing for the country. The region is alto:
eother mountainous, and the people cure very
Fansubordinate. Tf 'Pheodorus ean do for
i Abyssinia what Mekyinet Ali did for Exypt
P and Nubia, he will bea blessing to. future

_ generadons,

* plished this journey, and have reached An-!

» kobar, the capital of Shoa, situated in deg,
34 min. 33 sec, Ne dat. and 80 deg, 85 min.
CHAPTER NIY, ‘EL long., and S198 feet above the sea level. |
vas Heed to Sh Anketar— | Shea is now again united to Abyssinia, and}
placed under a governor instead of an- inde: |
penal Vilce—Flitting of nendent king. It may be ealled the Ethio- |
“Lee of a Mack Ssin— Geo. | pian highlands. Tt bas a rich soil, a heauti- |
~ | ful clinate, and contains iron, coal, and
y phur. The people are Christian, after tl
Abyssinian or Coptic fashion, —which me
very Htde that is good, ‘They disregard lio- |
* > Tiness and righteousness of Tite, They fast |
yearly nine mouths out of the twelve, which
must be

AFRICANS AT THOML.

YOREV.OR, M. MACBRAIR, M.A.

Pie Gahas—THfow to; to Herar— -

Baa,

rH

|
Uns |
i

Merchants---Native |
seedy
SUD aed
ed
Wiaarame |

Lake

rtuesThe

Tan:

i jeeeSorcererses.

- Tribe Shad five hundred wives, which is a pretty,
Weald yea wish to visir the sonree of geo number for a Christian king ; and most!
the Nile tT  Weoanean the Blie River, of the people who could afford it kept concu- |
fur the orhen oof the White Nile, which © bines and skives, Of course they do not ap.

Tiere Hnportant. stream, has net. peal te the (iospel for allowance in cither of|
ver been disecavered. Tt ts hoped that this’ these practices, or in lying, thieving, or

t
: i : :
We shall suppose that we have aceom- | to which some add drawers. If they abstain

jing tobacco, which is grown in the district.

habitants; but the roving character of the
; Bedouins makes it very fluctuating. ‘Their
_Teligious fanaticism is great, and their morals
| proportionately loose. — ‘I'he Somali say that
,‘‘Hlarar is a paradise inhabited by asses.’
; The people wear the usual tobe and sandals,

‘

weording to Moslem law from

intoxicating
liquors, they make

up for its want by chew-

So also is excellent coffee

You would reach Harar from Zaylan,
pretty good town on the coast situated on
jutting bank of sand, with a half-sav:
ulation, consisting principally of 8

IgC Op: |
omali. It |

H . . i
sul: has had many masters, and is now. said to:ant th
we! belong to the Sheriff of Mocha, who farms it | wilderr

toa chief’ of the neighborhood.
to the interior, the trav
mountains, desert
and rivers,

Passing in- |

and fertile plains, forests |
The frequent visits of roving |

a great saving to the poeket,—but! marauders and wild) beasts, who may be !eontains 12
their morals are very loose. The late king | classed together, would require you to be! s:

continually on the wateh during your jour- ;
ney. Kneampments and villages would oe- |
casionally be met with. |

We come toa village. It isa straggling
concern, composed of a disorderly ass

emblage |
of mud huts.

On entering one of these rude |

t
i
‘
{
i

‘the river

was the remainder’ What a volume poor
Dilbo might have written! What a harvest
of information he obtained, without. the
trouble of sowing ; and the crop was useless
to him, except to think about in his medita-
tive hours! Let us pick up a few gleanings,
ax we wish to journey through these coun-
tis.

We could go, if we were native mer-

‘chants, by a caravan from Gondar to Gnarea;

land if we were willing to brave the difticul-
aities and dangers of the route for “filthy
ailuere’s sake.”

Most of the people are
Moslems, and their language is a dialect of
Calla. Coffee grows wild, and is so abund-
at the tree is used for fuel. ‘The
less is full of wild beasts, especially
elephants. The king is a brave warrior and

eller must cross wild good ruler, who, sitting on a wooden throne |

covered with askin, administers ‘justice’?
to all who come for it. Iis capital, Saka,
000 (1) people. There are
uid to be white elephants and white bufla-
loes in this vicinity, which animals are held
sacred, Gnarea is a mountainous district.
Proceeding southward, we should reach
Gojob in twelve or fifteen days, and
then come to Kaffa, and its capital Suni,
which is built ona hill. The houses are of

we

'
| down | a;

y lightnin

fire hy rolling over it.
ihas but two wants w

his visitors,—one a medicine against death ;

1
‘ the other, a charm to avert the thunderbolt

‘and immense wealth would reward the
who could supply cither of these des
_ (The late king, the mighty §
i by the shaft of the de

I
man
iderata.”’
Suna, was struck
stroying angel in 1857,
‘Whilst riding in state—that is, on his minis-
:ter's shoulders—in the midst of his army.
, Custom compels the new king to live two
years in retirement, during which time his
“ministers have an opportunity of driving the
| state coach. )

! ‘The army of Uganda numbers 360,060
men, (+) each of whom brings an egg to the
/ muster, and thus something like a reckoning
of the people is made. “A soldier carries
| one spear, two assegais, a large dagger, and
,a shield ; bows and swords being unknown.
; They tight to the sounds of drams, which
‘are beaten with sticks like those of the
‘Franks; should this performance cease,
all fly the field. When the king has no
foreign enemies, or when his exchequer is in-
[decently low, he feigns

Sy

This palace has often been bumed ;
on which oceasions the
‘warriors must assemble and extinguish the

The chief of Uganda
ith which he troubles

situated Letween 6 deg. and 7 deg. S. lat. in
the neighborhood of a noted ivory man.
There is nothing here which Teseubles a
town. The Arabs live in oblong bones of
clay called tembe, built after the fashion of
‘those which we have seen in Central Afric.
| A verandah in front forms their asazl lowng-
‘ing place, whence a strong door leads w a
| vestibule in which visitors can be received :
;then a passage conduas to a cvori-yerd,
j where are separate chambers for the maser
iand his goods, his harem and his slaves. This
istyle of dwelling has been adopted by a few
imative chiefs and traders in the eastern dis
ttriets. he Arab colonists of Unyanremte
ido not exceed twenty or thirty ; they seem
j to live very comfortably, and even splendidly.
j Their houses form lide castles, sabetandial
jand capable of defence; their harems are
j well filled ; their gardens are stocked with
| fraits and vegetables ; they have flocks, bends,
tand slaves ; and they receive regoler sup-
i plies of wheat, fine nce, fruits, clothes, and
i whatever else they desire, by their caravans
from the seacoast. Bui the climate is preja-
 dicial to health!
{ A-fine, enterprising, independent set of
'men are these Arabs; and the chief com

a rebellion, attacks! merce of the lake distriets is owing io their

.of | one of his own provinces, massacres the chief; presence. About half a dozen of them are
through an aperture stopped by al wood, thatehed, and mean compared with | men, and sells off the peasantry. Exeeu-; stationed at Kazeh, and others in adjoining
able plank, we find an partment divi- | those of Abyssinia. Queen Balli was sov- | tions are frequent, 2 score being often slain places ; the negroes dwelling in clusers of
ded into three spaces by lov. walls of wattled | ereign when Dilbo visited Kafla. This bold | at a time, to keep his subjects in awe of him. ; hovels in their viciniiy. They received the
cane. One of these is for the men, another

tonepending question will soon be settled, | drunkenness. They scem entirely to isnore ! dwellings,
as the twhereahonts? of the source has been she precepts of the Bible, and only to retain; move
pretty well ascertained. Still, travellers | its a book for disputation. Dp. Krapt
disagree as to the preei spot, and as to tried to settle in Ankober, and was success:

tte i

eee of arth sal:

and perfune:

& 09 tra ‘

Heth

yen, @hoeler ou art:

howt thee,

y
MAE,

tt, we td
2 (Lain ableut
Asien th return.

wer netiong!

LA s
Ontlet ya memors,

nf COID PEA an

ce} rt

Tne,’ spat: ee ctaye
' Phe’ crowds should woo thy stay

de thy’ dear,
g ing
ng vu have thee here?

Linger netlong!

2 Of Fr
e

ib wateh thy coming,
Savaatenrna’es moorand cell,
ee bain

nie ake a ape!

poner dong:

yi ; .
H country are now found to have heen ecorreet, | been perpetrated, he gives his servant a dose ||
he anee A Pte within mare sand ono one has given a more true and? of black meal and milk, after which he
Tl Gnee 2 ae Rin Ine crews . Pr . . .
Ine sorieta shot, ita Howertis blew griphie dezeription of the people, in. every: | makes him smoke a quantity of tobacco.
wee Ay Ay fe aac ’ vy ‘ . . 8 . ~ -
oo wel’e amertndss rylind ‘ thine 6a thaiw ontine flach fram ! ” '
sen ow cau pgs cas TG CHLCE, OF ane eyuet et npr
vseeneg GAEL pe a eee ee Lee the lad ina frenzy: when his master
ure of my tang; living oxen A princess who knew this em- ing ne - ° “hth streets by a. string
arg “ . . fobat ! Jeads it Gv streets aoe
raz [ iropart i nent traveller, was alive when Dr. Gobat! leads him through 5 2

A per base hamming, |

whether it issues as a separate spring from |
the mountain, or proceeds from the lake Ny-|
anza. We may refer to this again,

dnt if von would see the source of the
Blue River. you cannot do better than follow
the steps of Mr. Brace. His accounts of the

to enter the country.

They have a singular order of “detectives”
in Shoa, which docs not say much for the
march of intellect amongst them. = When
the Lebashi is informed of a theft having

‘

1 1 ’ “ype On ae . od ”
yicited Gondar; and she told him that the | tied round his hudy nawting nm all fours, .
rin er F smelling : ce a crazed: person ort
former sultan, her own brother, had offered | and smelling rhout ike a m person ri
to Mr. Brnee “who was greatly respected,” | dog, By-and-by he cites eam TU i
pre 0 i : a hed, ¢ sleeps for ¢ eo. Then
the present of either a good market, or the | down ona Ved, antl she ps for a tin nat
onrea of the Nile. Ef so, we suppose the {the Lebashi arouses him hy blows, ane makes
ZOU CE ir NALE. £O, WO S Bie ; in ‘an ses
traveller cho-e the latrer, bat was satisficd | him arrest the owne of the house, who is re
h on Vo | garded as the thief, without any other evi-
tdenee, amd is obliged to pay for the stolen
article according ta. its sworn value. No
we find | wonder every one wishes to be friendly with
‘the thietaker, and to nge all pradent means
bs thirty-five in breadth, in its extreme parts, of securing his Favor, before he we "
[i hae a few islands in its bosom, the natives | walks abroad, Phe Ning of hoa: wliever
caid “forty-five? Mr. Bree thought about | or pretended to believe in the magic powers
' of this deceiver !

with one view of his singular possession,
we must remember that much of Abyssinian
narrative is apocryphal.
‘ . . G if
Starting northward from Gonedar,
othe large lake of Teana, forty miles in length

elogen sand he dpstonety us to believe Cheat |

ful for a time, but was afterwards forbidden! for

set of people ; the men ha

very recondite.

hojens and) 1
eaten with

broth.

migrating.
aloud,

! owe mareh ?
goods | we mareh

geneous assemblage moves forward,
stock may probably consist of (wo or three | _o
jarring ¢ \
and twiew as many sheep and goats. ‘These | should next arrive amongst a singular species
are driven in divisions by two hundred spear- (of amen, the Dokes.

the women, another for the cattle. The j

The

weessory to warmth.

besides tending their cattle

nTe-
and

Whisk

0 anl

it int yy

BOR tuk}

Let us suppose

“Votch
The j
hundred cows, six or seven thousand camels,

men, attended by boys and large pariah dogs,

{

tents, cooking apparatus, and extra apparel,
packed on camels led by young women. Ihe

‘Lhe master of ceremonies shouts | three years’ imprisonment. hes ans
your camels! load your | not seem to tally with their obeying 8 female
> ‘Phe whole process of | monarch, does it? ‘The country has inw an
flitting is soon accomplished, and the hetero- | tranquility, but wages perpetual wars with

woman had seized the helm of government on
the death of her husband, and making her

thatch is jetty with smoke, which is seldom ‘son general of the army, took upon herself
allowed to escape ; for smoke and dirt ave ‘the management of the home department.
enjoyed by the Inbabitants. sho deem them {She kept much retired ; but when she
re an indolent | peared in publi, re:
little to do! paid to her rank ; so
nd the domes- ! must walk on cloths spread before her. The
tie arrangements of the woi en not heing | people are
They pone the grain afi asin tt?
oe ROMO EH MC JH SUPA REVUES
I spend the day together, only seeing their
wives at night.
an eneamped tribe to be idrink with her husband, under penalty of

ap-
quired due honor to be
that her dainty black feet

partly Christian, of a very degen-
Lt . “ 2 se
A woman must not eat or

Yet this does

its neighbors,
tout aifely through these
Could we travel safely rough so
lements of the human species, we

They are a race of
pigmies, only four feet high, of a dark olive

. , are vnrrl olor, living in a st: Y complete savagism.
The sick and weak of the flock are cary ied color, living in “ state uf " me §
on eamels. ‘Then comes the furniture of the | They have no chiets, law, ck

, or houses;
yursne no art, not even that of agriculture ;

mt live on frnits, roots, mice, serpents, ants,

Suna never appeared in public without a}
spear. His dress was the national costume, |
along piece of fine bark cloth extending
from the neck to the ground. He was a
terrible despot, boasting to the Arabs that he
was the god of earth, as their Allah was
Lord of Heaven, Te claimed divine honors,
which his subjects readily paid ; but was ter
tibly angr’ wit! the lighmive He shut
sees WES eae ‘ . 5 oy
le war wy, aon caaemarvoent ni’ sepirate
dungeons, where they must continue till
death, if not wanted for the throne. He was
awfully rigorous in justice; (2) the only
punishment being death and fines. He was:
very liberal to Arab merchants. whom he
encouraged to trade in his eapital.”’

When Snay Ben Ameer arrived with a
caravan, the sultan ordered the erection of
as many tents as he might require, and sent
him large presents of bullocks and grain,
plantains, and) sugar-eanes. When, after a
repose of three or four days, he was sum |
moned to the audience hall, he found 2000
guards outside armed only with staves. Suna:
Was seated on a cushion of bark cloth,
dressed as usual; two spears were near him ;
and his favorite deg. a kind of greyhound,
was hy his side, The ministers sat ata

European travellers with great urbsaity, and
aided them in pursuing their discoveries.
Here you can reemit your stock of African
currency, which consists of beads, cloth, and
wire ; and along with ammunition vou may
procure various comforts, incloding spices
and drugs. The Wanyamwesi of this regioa
are the principal porters of the merchandise

af the psrecerns sss: vo eee oe
am
we Ae vated, ao TU aaequare we

bry ouhredet arerktasy TSS
Tf you should be taken ill here, which ix
very likely to happen in the rainy season, a
doctor will be strongly recommended. He
tries the cautery, coatings of powdered gia
get, and similar counterirritants, Should
his art fail, he insists that vou are poisoned,
and that you ought to @e a mgang oF witch,
celebrated for the cures which she has pes
formed. The old hag makes ber appearance.
She is covered with wrinkles, “with a greasy
skin, black as soot, set off by a mass of tine
colored pigtails ; ber arms adorned with ecp-
per bangles, like manacl and the impie-
ments of her craft, as usual, a ginlle of susil
mounds, dyed red-black with cil and use. :
She first demands and receives her fee ; aid
then preeeeds to search the mouth, and te
quire about poison, This question is perbay s

eS |

matrons follow, carrying: their babies inj and wikl honey, ‘They have thick protrnd

| nel sine trihes are Gallas, une 1# : oo, _ a .
AM the nedighboring tn shoulder lappets on their backs. The elder ting Tips, flat noses, and small eyes; thei

Lake ‘Teanga, we der different names. and having different

fit sine: f th: : s are ued in the
: ng! : distance of fifty paces, between the king and [a proof that deadly herbs are uscd}
thane prod oon nothing |

cepan the hill!
hone long
son Absent stil?

Npepep #
Lee GOP bane

Sad grieve not, though the eye that weeth

speendor dull;

arocarth me,

858 when the
ont happiness is oll tes fnil!
Linger not long

. fear
fe TeAd,

Tas Economy of Human Life,
No KAVSINS Seligion

Procuie nar one God, the autos, the creator,
¢ whi, albichty, ecval, and

mana net Gad, theagh bis noblest inaage
Heeni yorenente tne aortd wath bas brishtness) bas

Peo the praia ts of the earths

sraren”

aenies fit as he

heat weorehipe bitty 10, : ,
Poche One, whe is anortine, most wise, and he

refers and in him alone, beleays worship, alora

fet

reatore, The instrament Of Gad:
rhatore,

hoy, thanveshete and praise, ;
Whe. hatn atrecened forth the heavens with bis
hagh, eat hath aeseriveed sith his finger the Conese
ot Oe stare a
Wine certett taninda Meth ocean, whieh i rane
HO Paes; Aah Santi Un Th OTT winds, fe still.
UW tar the Catth, aud Tbe BANS tenable, .
mee aretin bis ichenings, atl the gi bed are dis
Maser,
Wie cauieth farth awerlds by the
meri be ansteh eh his ac, and the,
jit fee thine, ;
Oy pe vepenen the maprsey Of the Onanipete ut
ae not pet bas anges, deat thon he Me ctregen.
The pensions of Gat jaazerall his cons, be
pricey aah oieestathe vith defiant wisdorn,
$f hath jpattited Jaws for the your rhmncnt of
the ects he hari oronder hile vied teen pe al)
things: aod cach tee bis navore, conformist te his

word of his
aink

”

wy,

fn

tye epth of dis mine be roeaheeth all neces
sre aor gets GE Puta ity lit open Yefere bin
thera shite af Weg beset are naked tee bis vie ar;

thy CConeinatans before theg per

Jesh y
The
neo et teaety
Moe ; .

With eoranet to bis preaciener, there ie fethine
Catt frat ath ceege ed tn hie preidenee, Meee as
neon actidentad

Veer ertil ia he in add bia cwn7s;
ineeranies the poanner af bis Rtaaledee priate.
FOE TT COGOE ONE

“Bag, therefore, to hiaaedemn all bonis and yeu
tratieets: anh tees Neva th ceelf inn hey hfe An Picul..
ha aan te Oba lit tents tee bebe teapere site Vipe eis

The Seadia gracions nad beneficent,
epented ing earl in meeny and fave,

Mia godess fe conspiourna in all lis woricay he
} the fountain of agcelionce, the cents of porlee-
tient.

Phe cpeqenee caf bia head declare his gondness;
aod al) there nda cents apeak hic pra, bee fete.
eh them wih wenaty, be anpperteth then with
feed, he precer rth then with pleases fram gene
PAttest Wee ONO ral cofy

tf owe diffe ap cnr eas ta the heavens, hia plore
shine hy forth if en cmatthorm don ipen tie ones,
je Sulfa bia gainers: the bills ond the salle ga
rejenee nad sing, fella, rivera, and ants ceeouned
hie fsrajae ; ; :

fe thee, Goinat, be hath distinguiehed arith pre
caliae ferge. nih exaliette the atatinn rbeore nll
CLOROTET ES, a,

Ho hatterndeged thee aith ronson lo msdntein
Hee Datndniens: be tovth fitted thee corithe ber wrscer
tr ienpertsye bey recto: ned canted thy nda ath

he hath

the fredters af peditotion, lr centenipinte sel nederty -

ia indents poeple tate

Aeed jen te fare fie bette ceetiieed oe the rte of
thes Who, ory witidiz Yemtly bee enereed thee thety te thy
fraterce, Mm edyeed gern ter bbs pereeepts ja begepinesa
ta th pactf

wainlings. we

ceiteen feet high, and

On the northern cide of
find the town of Mait-ha.

f fhois singularly
constructed. For example :

one anan build:

ahutat the corner of a field whieh he oren- |

fies ond his relations build other dwellings,
behind bie in adjoining fields; and so there ;
eines to bea large elamp of huts, hael to;
hack, under one large common roof The
wiole is eucrounded with a thick abattis or
thorny hedye, for the sake of mtial pros:
tection, Miatsha consiete of these elunps of,
dyellicge, Oats here grow wild, and each
mn height above the head of a aider but thr
corn ie not aed by the natives, and they
coteh oatmeal cakes, mine,

could pet pedich &

arcording ta the reecipt of Mr. Brae,
Keeping near the Nile, whieh i fall of

should auonget thes,

A Oe it old people, whe hase Hi wear yeu:

COpye

eration for the river, anc will not allew it te
ye Meerre, Dine aad Co
rane! not cide aeross it, nor wash off the dut

theeeop ated,

trom then clothes ain the sacred yates

Ifere as
aheut *
On the Hapa of the weight
or inountiine, zou would pereeipe  beatifad
and villages: off graves.

mountain ope,

sep the treat

ly

ine hidls

yards

We phe, Hey

plains of verdure

Vek cormetines falle on there

hutina cned oop enemnenon
j

athens hace ono werd in their Tangnage

Nhoyve ae teltninst iapenetiabde wood Ke
Michael Then ona gentle pee is
ehael Geesh, aber the Nile pened four yards
browh AO fithe farther the
chanel place Honan eminenes, ane dawn the
Wil beyond it, a verdant nese,
Pande the bl, tewards

On, YOt Rees

hele yards distin Phe
the Will wae Hiel: geawn Over with flowers,

the large Vallous routs of whieh) appenrings

phove He series of tee round, nad their

The.
News wend rather carey their bagecages
the firs cotaraet, :

fin elie the,
St ME,
Hie Lites

. a neh “wn boway.
higeouns dsare dela of eee code, whieh wae abet tye nomch ova veachinge then in this wary
fig cannes Is if

whole cide af;

forns of religion, "There are a few Chris-
fans amonyst them, especially in Guragne,
situated inabout Sdlew, No dat. Others are Ma
hometana. Most are pagans, worshipping
He moon, some of the stars, and the Wan-
gay tree, under whieh (heir kings are
erowned. ‘The Gallas, or, as they eall them:
celyes, Orme, areca fue race, with well-

formed Int savage countenance, ebielly of
dark brown color, though some are o:
Henee the young women
tlave-dealers: for

foir complexion,
are mined sourht after by ,
the Atalian ivarket. They Iestnyear their
hedy and garments with butter, which sends
forth an vopleasant olor, In fone tribes
the women de heside or behind thei hus
bards, ne itis considered devrading: to po on
foot, The Southern Gallas lead a pastoral
and oemnadie dife.  ‘Thety honses are Tanlt “m
the plan of the Afriean romnl dius, The
worehip spirits, and have the
Many

parca tribes ! !
Hom magietan-doetors and exorerts,
of them will net eat fish or fowls, suppostiy
the former to Ie of the serpent, the halter
Poof the vulture speries, We vhall het weary
the ead with any of their fons af fohich
euperstiiian or their silly tene!.

We should dike te taken peep oat the pee
ple inhahiting the commer or eastern paomen:
tay of Africa below Shea, if we cont hy
any means reed thear Phe distance from

ANnkiohar ie pet very mreat, bulwe healed tal
ensily eros the deserts and mountains which
intervene, through the tiles of Matdaites
and afterwards the Somali, ‘Phe will ie
He uf the eountry, the savage Hiapesition
oof the people, the biygatey nul jeatouw y ol
Hie Mosler ebiefis, form an effec toad Trvvaies

i
Hi
{
i

Captain Biiten id penetrate with cone
 ageler able Hiffienlty from the eastern coast of

the Hed Sea to) Phir, whieh my die nd:
Lumb nan speeinen of other royal residences

in this region. We shall imagine oupsel ves
| .
there,
The palace of the Naltan oof iran ison
i ' ; ich, hye 7 ji ma ke a diana
this, came ton sland of preen tak, yehieh ) long pled, without winston Ik - P
wen the form of we altar, apparently the) nde of rough slones nnd ree lich olay.
nuk of ort and Petood in raphire over thee is situated dn on eoutt yard, Nike off your
t;

. . | . Soaps before -
. Neopet " s fy CEY SUPE, wie
iineipor fountain whieh rises in the aniddlet phones, anil five Up yom !

chins coming off on treading: upen thom, ne.
cacionel tne we verg sever Fall before |
pearhed the brik of the senrech, [, onfter!

of ih? This de Cha serene of the BE w | jeoarhing the royal presen: He lw Ane
Picer, Tat the White Haver, whieli is ie) prreat 0 wun in his TT retina ue
eyiled ns Hie reer inportant busench uf thes Can nf Kuesin is in his. ro wi ‘ in
Vile, pees farter north md west Phe o dnest to him erated ann reiserl benely eg

in DE deg, No datitade aad) oa throne, ina dark coon, the walla of whieh
ae whiteswached,  Matehdocks anil [rie
chamber,

foltors tony, npn Che sides ol thie "

| The sultan WOE EP CUPPED) robe cul pol will

Soe eae ee tier Famine Lite Aden sou ar. ah nares Hoban of ao white eclor.

Sr fere a Mrpetaber Enecerdgubicees tof Afrie oe reed Me fee com ft . ' ; ' .

ne ' ton Hine Arrosmaste th Avice ‘Doe logs Fon we fis oelatives: are beside bin, having: thoi:
re ean Me

Force Of Uietigee Pine te thee Percent Dag. fly the Ree I anfutes vin by aan

Alaa come ts
pearly Bf bee Vi. fongitade, ;
When Parnes rer geral hhiss ponies to dein |

children are also used for baby carriers.
The cavalewle proceeds ata slow pace, with: |
outamuch regard to order ar quiet.

The Somali and their neighhors are armed
with the gprar and bow, and are much afraid
of firearms, whieh they call an untiir and
cowardly weapon, a8 bullets make no dis-
Gnetion between a brave man and ao coward?
Some of them used poismied arrows, whieh
we should think to be quite as cowardly,
This poison is very desully. ; It ix obtained
from an evergreen resembling a hay tree,
row in form, growing to the height of 20
feet. Hs reat is something: Tike liquorice,
whieh jg macerated, and the poison extracted
by a partionlar process,

” After these oxeursions to the southeastern
countries, we reduin to Gondar. that we nny
take a sontherly route tate the tropical heart
of Afrien, Not that we should like to
travel in this direetion, until we had more
confidence in the people through whom we
mist pasts Mor, contrary to the supposition
of ancient geographers, the quatorial rerions
ave not burned ap with the seorehing aim se
ne fo be uninhabitable. Nature his pre-
vided a blneko skin for the natives: and by
this simple arraiycement, Uien like ourselves,
except in colar amd mental ability, live and
labor ander Che oriyof a vertiead san,

Can we draw a hill of evedit upon any of
these pative:'? Shall we believe die ne.
corte whieh Chey pive of their own vonntey?
What confidence ean we place in Hhuir (esti.
mony ft Very little, certainty, if theiv infer
bate were concerned in telling a lies for they |
have ne iden of trath being a vide, Bat |
in ordinary conversation they anay toll ne |
nedty eurreetly what they Ihave sven aml
veal pant if eeveral of them, under difler-
ent ebemmeliness, prive ua similar informa

|
|

|

ry

Hien, we nay plies a general velinnee on
their deseription af men | Inemnners, tu
thie way enty enn we fl apea vonsidorahle
void in’ our ‘nap af Afvien, snl _vomnoet the
Heenverion of dite (ravellors, | Krapt Boke,
Pothoriek, Barton, Spelce, ant Livingstone
reached eon paint, of the interior ; nul
there they reveived neeonnta trem mer
clanta ntvt shoves, oof conntries beyond
Lhe range of their own perenne nidventitne,
which they have published firour edifiention
These aesunnta are geurrally meagre, but
they afford an outline of pacts of this ‘un
scovered’® land. We therefore tilio them

for what they are werth; Casting: ty a
general sintoment, but not eve ren
drodence fominnte details, eapeciatly those

ino whieh Ge informants Chemaelves were ean.
cerned, For all theee people lave tonite a

hair, not woolly, is worn by the women ever
their shonklers. Their nails are allowed to
erow Tong, like the talons of vultures, in
order to dig up ants, and tear i picees the
flesh of serpents whieh they devour raw.
The Dokes multiply rapidty, but are hunted
down by all their neighhors, to whom they
aller no. resistanes. When eaptired, they
heeome docile and. ohediont slaves, who live
onan little, and are therefore prized by the
people af those countries. This aeceunt of
the Doko pigmies has heen corroborated by
evidence trom other quarters ; and when Dr.
rapt was at Barava, a slave was shown to
hinv et this deserintion, said te have been

hrought from the Hiliputian race at the inte. |

Bik)
" Somewhere on the lett of the rente which
we have daken, is the kingdom of Senjere,
where human saerifiees are offered to the
supposed deities, Tn an olden tine when
the seasons were so jumbled together that the
fruits would net ripen, the sorcerers aneped
come children to he slain, and their hood
poured on the throne amd on the broken base
of aniren pillar whieh stood at the entrance
af the town, and whieh they connmanded to
he braken. ‘The seasons then heeame regu
tars and inorder to keep thom right, certain
families are obliged to deliver up their fivst-
horn sons, who are sacrificed at an appointed
time. Lin imitation ef these people, and fron
werude enperstitions fear, the slave-dealers,
ov leaving: Serie, throw a beautiful female
shave inte the Lake Ue,

te will thus appear that the natives pel
phhye SUVA naoowe Approach the equator,
Fiom the pipmy Dokos we tikes south:
westerly course, Tnoastide af abont 800
miles, fa reach the tribes. ef independent
Unyore, who live in Intitudes a litthe north of
the equator, Qur readers mitt really ex-
ere ie aummmary way of potting ayer a Oly
wild and burning country, the inhabitants of
which ave ride in the extvame. This is, in
fret. all that we know about then; and we
have no desire fora near cequitatanees leat
we ehowld he murdered, saerifived, eaten,
Fonstaved, or. at least, stripped of everything
and lol taadarve in the wilderness. Mor the
eome renaon, we have tolten a) eiveuitona
voute, amd not one directly eoutle tram) Dar
fir, whieh would have been the shortest way
into the repions whieh we ehall now visit.

Look at these alive brought: frome the
Unyorot They are al a dall black relor,
with Mattigh heads, prominent eves, and pro-
jreting, lower fw, tatlooed in tarp botehos
oneimeling the forehend, They will tell you
about the lind of Cheit birth» that it abonnds
preattle and ivery. ant it is ge het chat the

line story about thonselves, their adventures,

 enlant EA, Aathor af Hee Shentinge emt Booka Hadhit annie bare,
| Arsternnee, fe Paani beeeugsenty, Arment, Langinan wid rire ries Hhitihs wel finger, mud ache the wenn
Panerte  BEGE fi

anil their hoveisne !

inhabitwnte eave Hite about clothing They

his guards ; and the principal women were | COUNTY, Taking a powder frown wre ¥ a
placed out of sight, behind the visitor's back. i guunts, and mixing it with water, s admin
The chamber was lit with tovehes. A con! isters it like snuff, 80 as W cause a v folent
versation took place about Zanzibar and the j sneezing. She hails this sign we st ne et
polities of the whole country. W hen tired i oy. then rubs the head . ith ame ‘r ~ ev.
Fat it the despot rese up, and the meeting dis-! and tines, prowsing a aw mt whe
persed. Snay  reeeived immediately what- | pensities for ttexteating drank, W te he fe

Fever he wanted ¢ and it was intimated to the | enables her to indulge, prevents ber neturte
1

i

¥}
| king's stranger," that he might) Tay hands ing om the morn te ws pte ree
on whatever he pleased, animate er ian: Before visiting the ether ake, ‘he “
‘nate. ‘Tho Arab was) wary of indulging to the west and reaches nearly wn e n we
this prerogative. When he departed he re. of the continent, we had wey Ry ain we
Feeived a present af provisions for the mad, people who live Wetweoen Kaseh and the ass

ant an after of two hundred guands to escort | orn coast, Tt is a caravan ute, with sta-

; » ‘I
“him, Suna allewed ne Qravellers fo gy) tons and villages at Wo grvat etary oe
I north of Kibuja, lest the distinetion contorved ; each other : sw that there is little ee ots a
by their visit should be shared by inferior | vation fim hunger or thirst, te t . re
| chiets, He hada flotilla on the Take Ny-; that is supplied with the money © hich a
| anzn, sweth tw all things. ; Nor wi an arnt
Crussing the river Kitanzure, whieh flows ? party bein much fear of whlers, Sa i VW
| into this lake, vou wonld enter Karaawak, a) one whe wads the volumes of Captian Bur

“hilly but tenittil district, with a high range ton’s (ravels, will wish to take this Rarey
Fat mountains and cieh valleys. A Gall stout |The ineunvenienees and SNA , hin
race of people inhabit these highlands, where | traveller must entire aw wes res ~
i tomate heauty is (like amongst (he Moors) and almost insutloralte, t is aittten a
, Roth sexes ! whether the mon or asses are most ithe ult te
manage, The latter ave voly halt tamed,
Fand ace test uaraly animals, Kicking, plang
‘ing, thing down, straying, and never guts
above ty miles an hour, wnless a stick is
eonstintly applial by a penn Wehind. Ry
thoir misdemeanors vou might sustain bruises
on your Daly, toss of property, and be some
times obliged to carry your wen parks
Alt the natives, escort, sindes, carters,
slaves, and villagers, ane as lad as bad an
settlement by itsell A pastoral people, the be ile, wera thiovish, het ory
Wotese, somewhat like the Foolas of Sene-! kind af trivk awe dlvou ion. we wnt
yambia, are svatlord Chrough this country, ‘hind pesple are insuboainate, quan “ w.
the southorn frontier of whivh is in about 2 and ready to desert at 8 mone Mes we.
dog. dO nin, 8. lat. The next peopte ave dhe | They stp when they pease, wee wn wen
Usni, whe bear avery bad name auongst | you wish them to gy slow, and eney une
travellers. , yon want chent ty hasten, always grunt WR
Alt this Cime, you have on the east of yuny and geting drank whenever they en.

i

chiefly estimated by eorputence,
ave elad with the mbuga ot short kilt, here
made of bark loth. Their villages of shabby
round huts ave seattered over the hills.
Though the king bas a large store of’ five
eloth prvsented to hint by strangers, yet he
prefers the free aud easy costume of his sub:
joots | Crem whem he distinguishes hieell
la pair of fight fraiters made of beads,
reaching trom below the anele to dhe knee.
lis palace sonsists of forty or filly huts ita

route the Lake Nyanga: whilst ou the west
ave some aukatown Cibes whe merge inte the
Ueige and Urundi, on the northern parts of
the lake ‘Tanganyika, Thee newlyadiseoy-
ered lakes wil requis a passing Wwllee,
Lake Nyanga or Vietaia wnst be eare-
fully distinguished fom Lake Nyassi or
Matavi. whieh Hea a eonsilovable Histone tw
the south,  GMueh peographieal contusten
Tas arisen fom supposing them to be the
name) The southern point of Lake Nyauea
te in 2alop. BEmiv. Sal yg the middle of the
expanse ia nhowt Bt depe Wo lor and it is
NTHO foot aborw the sew level. Ts watar be
very elear aml aweet, Chew abe soe
islanda in ita bosom, inhabited hy a very
savoge wind naked race of peuple. Ve has
not heen asvertained how fie north extends,

vlimate of this eastern region is eepreetns
and anbioot to great alternations oF best and
wld, fg and sunshine, thir weather aud
Looming brains, The revise apporr here, and
are not an mesplorhel te men and ascus as tt
the districts Craversed by Ty. livingston :
for they are very amnayinyg to both species,
thong’ their bite de not feat to then.
Pivecoding eartwant, you would first pase
Commgh a series af low uaglee atid desert
slaing, inhabited prineipally by Wayamwest,
Yack. mnail is exacted by the chiol of every
pluve Chemgte whieh you pare: and it atten
Haynie a coueitorable tine to wottle the tax
i ahat mest be paid, One of theee potty “als
tans’? may be desorited ae a ample of the
vost sm tall, Teepectimbed, arynetac ran with
w black amd writtkled skin: the: grease and

Sees

. pores dma kates . Dos aoe eens 7 a -
em on - ~~ voimenish thei Ailtorent hikes or 4 . A prisoner of war oat CSneimuath from | Vis father and mother were both slaves, hut . A pprehend hinn 3” extlaitnesl Dogharry hers, “We sekecscl, tat Peat their dirk
oil whieh drep from his pigtails imparting j mars isang’ . Thoir usual dress is Hichmond, says, Bonnregard, with 15,000) ware never married, On tho day of hie] inn bluateving tone. orl apprchend fines its bane were: shacitered faiibtnl becarin, guia
their unetuasity te the whale of his badly. A yetans trout eae other. . her. ") . ‘f vorile troops from Mannasas, has left for Kentucky, | bith, bis mother, Ly her master’s orders, was | a minute. What's hie name?” ‘tible of the oldest inpasbies,” thup winder
cloth round his loins, and a tobe chrowa over 'a kilt of cloth or soft lesther, Their and that deff, Davis will take command dn engaged in forking hay inthe hay-yard of the “fshinwel Williams,’ wos the reply. 0 the freee popula A New Oy.

porgon at Manussag, after his inanguration, |farm, and boing nuddonly ill while thus oc- “Ob-th ” ejrculated the officer towly , lewne: ; ;
whieh will take placo on tho 22d inst. Much |eupied, she gave birth to a child ono hay. and timeroualy, “that altere the came entirely: Ase elas, they are peasalle, orderly,
uneasiness prevails at Norfolk and Richmond, tatuck, ‘ho child, thus unceremoniously ['in afraid of him—he’'s two desperate 7 if ja Tesprctable pope, ad many A tLe
rofative Co the Burnside expedition, ushered into life-—dolin A. Williame—seemed | can't do it, gentlemen-—ean doit ! Ap Lown barge: anon of WOpary enemy ne
The Caive correspondent of the Cincinnati destined to have a very tough battle to fight; | prehend that man, why he'd lick me to! Pheir interests, their betes, rd their shee
Gazette says, if the Mississippi Kixpedition is | bat this: was only the heginning of hig tron. | death!” UGGe are bere. and pues salng ther 216 tah
apart of General MeClellan's plan for sine {bles ; and having a stout epirit, he learned And so the sons returned home disap warily broken by be force: of theoreti! pu
ultancous adyanee, weeks more of delay must | to fight it well, Around the early youth of | pointed. dawhropy, OF imaginative wantinentalsy,

be endured before the Cairo forces are ready, | Mr. Williams, was cast the shadow of sad- They then went to a equire’a and told him | They have been tne initherts, and we wilt
in pays.cal appearance au rie shout BOSTON: THURSDAY, FER. 6, 1862. If no such simultancousness isintended, there | ness 5 for he parsed that period of his dife in they wished to have their bag Jehinased not do them the injuetion to desta 8 OI
Mast of them ‘ave fine forms. and some of isa abent | “yt ky wean the . is nothing tn the condition of this division | a state of wretehedness which seldom falls to whipped, and asked him to isane bis warrant anes of their Bdelity. While they rosy le
their females are handsome in a high degree. treachery in children or Kinsmen ot - .- We will issue an xtra Leat next) iy peqard the grand advance an hour. the lot of any boy—even though a slave. | to have him taken up.

i i i imbs 3 | or © beads, rings of brass, and
his shoulders, partially cover his gaunt Tinks ; ores ATE beads ing vt brass. a
Jet vortion of his lees and ankles ste: coils of copper ar iron wite, Vives are pin
whilst a portion of his legs and) au Mar dae ny
sealed with a deep ornament of brass and chased. and polygamy ts Che ork | \
concealed with a deep ornament : wh ‘ ete OMe aiekaes
copper wire, and his sandals are decorated | with these who ean atford: it. sicknes
‘ 8 SoM als on . . ; ;
with dises of white shells Hot a chief een causes the death of many
Ww . } se sage } x sper : n
The Waeogo next attracts your: atiengent, lt is aseribed tu magic, i
in the tableland of Ueno: a tribe of negroes | mganga er soteerer 1s summoned to tine en
wh y seem to have mixed much with the Arab? che culprit. Phis he does by inspecting the
ce, ¥ superior {0 their netehbors | inside ef a mystie fowl which has been killed
ral Lattention te dress. j and split inte we parts, Blackness er blem-
he wing is supposed to denote

persons,

race, being great]

certain that ineirdination will Le preanpe

Similar remarks may te made on the Wah- | backbone i convicts mother and srandimortir: week. wan tame ; Ile never saw bis father’s face, and his “ZT daren’t do it, gentlemen. He's few bY pauished, deserving actions will ainaze

umba, who Eve te the north of the Waguge. iin the tail i¢ ee the “The ad vas i. feet Rreountr ae That Tiswith eas fy MISCELLANEOUS trevs—The U8. me mother he remembers to have geen only desperate a man to medde with, and Um. tet with ther due sewerd in the estecau aid
Aseending the Usagara mountains, you | thighs the th ‘ _ * rehives. 2 - SHeOENTTION OF _ il * es lie dtebt was ou the on ae biG GON, tice ! . really afraid of him.” _ i gratitude of the comatanity. ,

come amongst the Wasagara, a set of shert, u Wt any * ae thats boon fixed npon as sure we announce that | we ater. C rarles |—in duly next ‘ ilk i . » ously Buy, When he was a year old, his master gave So the contemplated whipping wag given | Yet, if five, even oF thee veAwrene, seald

black, beardless men: their only covering | ne n aches hae me ee veeted hy the Summer continues unvearied in his efforts to | and unless a re et in wm uuevions ye » his mother her liberty, and, in order “to clear up in des pair. 1 at any lime te YR talking togeAler, they

being a gat skin apron slung over one shoal. | CHIES he hee _ ‘moth wrdrawmed hen, | have justice done to Hayti by ony Govern- pressed wi an euy, » amioun the law,” offered to sell her her own child! ‘These incidents prove what stuff one of tare lia mete be arresten for ony:

der. Their sultan is deseribed as a little, | MANA, Who Crews up anole BS : S1,200,000,000. for the nominal sum of stz cents? But the} Philadelpbia’s colored preachers is made of; cording vy the laws of Varaisiana!

and sinetes on > individu: shone if wt. On ‘Tuesday last he reported in the nee 1, Jenence tht . j “ Lye
and singles out the individual en whe ment way me The Petersburg (Va.) Express thinks that | ooursed system, of slavery, which has o| and the mere attempt to retain such aman; Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, in bis spoch

‘ testa obi x ith wide mouth, a drunk- ue :
etigial old man, with wide nv : ee ys - = extorted by! e _ ’ een Soraten Doe : Sy DN ., ; J ae . : -
ants eyes. a very thin beard, wening eng alights. | Confession of sat hn nan ishment. | enate, from the Connittes on ones le the defeat of Zollicoflir was allowed by Di inany sins to answer for, had hardened even! jn slavery was an abyurdity which none but |in Congress, om the Itaprisenment of Colacd
F : : torture. and instant death ts the punts “} dations, a bill te recognize Hayti and Liberia, | vine Providence tor some wise and good pur] other's heart. She was young and| 4 fool would dream of. Ile merely “bided 'Seamen, Seprember, 1950, bare this wath

sung h Tis dress ditfers littl .
sane 7 , i Men are speared, clubbed, beheaded, ot have

- . : . ora 1 = ye * he . ° . . } td ~ galls Ra ofp,
Satof the sultan of Rubuga, but he! if by sending to each as a diplomatic represent: | pese 5 though it does not exactly comprehend thoughtless—iidn’t want to have the care of | his time.’ Tt came at last,—preparations | mony to the gallant condo of the colored

. pe ee | shel ad erushed « women are impuled, a erecrane 2 areas : tallies - a
wore 2 number of necklaces, Thus withh | (etr heart crushed ; women ate . ne dying, | ative, a Commissioner, and Consul-General, what it can be. . wae he |? child upon her shoulders—and_ positively | were quietly and scenrcly made,—and one j soldiers at New Orleans:
mia . ie). ne oeOveTINE 7 wit 9g ad = - ONS \ .. anar te ‘ 9 . . z . ae . 27 - s Gra
a short distance. we find three contigucus | He chic? bo Teng of a ae ‘ > ons tyled ‘The same paper is highly jubilant at the refused to purchase him. starry night he bade Baltimore good bye for “TL have an impression that, nt, indeed,
& Sats airs Ne : : . . *Vetims are sacrifieed ¢ sinee the ‘teus-]} so styled. ; wl comious injury th: > late storms . . . oe : 2 “WS i3 ee InTne tines of tin the th
tribes wholly differing in their physiological, #Muy Viens are atti ce + snk f his dis: ee eee ee supposed serious injury that the late uss Thus throw back into slavery, he grew up| ever. With no other guide thantthe North /10 these pipsng tines Of pease, Lutin the ee
3 . From” is contingod until some issue of Ins cls Armen Emigrants ror Haytt—A | according to ramor, have inflicted on Burn-| 4 other slave huys do, on Southern planta-| Star, he and a companion started on their | of war, when quite a boy. I have seen Leek

senheud, who did faithfalend exe--

APPWATANe

Horm the African sveamores aband, The | e25e takes place. When his disorder is the | yy ashington letter states that a plan is now | side’s fleet. ‘This piously inclined sheet in-|iiong From the peculiar circumstances at-| jonrney. Conecaling themselves among the if#ldie

Vee ar inte. ee £ : any pre: . . Ye coyare y ators for “a ata t - ts cas if : ‘ qe . . 2 cere. tt mee be :
splendid. tree. extend more | debility ef intemporanec and age, MaDY PCT dor consideration. by several Senators, for quiringly says, ‘does not this luok as if the tending his birth, his master’s sons nick-| Woods by day, they sallied forth at night, ‘lent serviee. But, however it mas beve Leen
and with their thick fo pcede hint into the other world: form te sending a large body of armed emigrants, | wrath of heaven was descending upon these named him “the Hay boy,” and grossly | and thoazh sometimes half dead with cold. jin the Northern States, I cen teil ibe Sena
we ~ . aye aye s s, ale ‘ “ys , . ; 1 a . tres . ony Ty: G J t= . : 7 . ' h-. ,, } ~, °> Sere
-honse no. less than vightec n pers he het ‘| “contrabands,”” to Hayti, to aid in prevent-t wicked and infamous marauders, whose put akused him whenever they had an opportuni- hunger and fatigue. they hopefully pursued | tt what hopperied in the Scothern Siztes at
and famato : ty saerite: shornd |] - ae ets yeh, . a ta wp the oe rend: ° . ae m - id Wie nept ete : Le
and female. have been sacrificed to thts he ing Spain from taking possession of that por- | pose is no other than to plunder an unoffend ty. All the boys about the farm—white and | their journey tothe North. It would occupy j *s period. LT teheve thar Isbell be berce

branches of t
e than a anndred fe

Endy berry. eaten for want of ether fend, delusion. sanele and swamps tien of the Tskind of St. Domingo. Spain /ing people, burn down their houses, and lay | &ored—associated together, and they never | too much space to minutely narrate every in- | oUt In saying, that no regimenis Gid Letier
Thote arm two species, one having a larger’ . ve } eer of i will, no doubt, he thankful for this timely waste their fields . 5 als amitted an opportunity to display their hatred | cident of the interesting journey ; it is ,S¢T¥e¢, at New Orleans. then a4 the bieck
‘hor leaf than the other, anda! Ton the borders | hint.—JBustoxn Traveller. The Norfolk (Va.) Day Book has also} i, yin, They would often take him into the! sufficient to state that Mr. Williams at length ; Tegiments. Which were ergenized under th

—We say that if ‘several Senators”? do | become quite devotional, and ul now st abe woods, dig a hole, throw hin in, and bury} arrived at Philadelphia,—having lost his {direction of General Jaskwm bims<
to have an inkling that there really is, at the fii all but his head. At other times they

mauntains, Azad! : : wisely then they have hitherto F
not act more wisely then (hey have hitae . re . : rovilence ¢ : eye ye s te of er, :
feat ate ve the sea le new Cresses eG tes bana vat he oblieed to time of writing, an overruling Providence ; would tic him to a tree, and whip bim till the the people of color o
a“ “uso . the Vernment may ye e 17@ 1 TWweNe ag cy} ys 7 Vikzit se . Fes,
eller’s route. and he must scrambe Gone, the saver y3 3 later intelligence has probably, however, | hoot flowed. These and other similar freaks f

i go to Elaytiand bring over a body of armed | camewhat shaken this new-born faith. We appear to have had none of the spirit of boy: ‘Teceived the thanks of General Jackson. in 2

he ts dFeulk ra .
Sek A) miles in leneth. and has an average . ‘ +): conti : ‘ atistied is : cement, ‘from | - .
Tn 280 miles in tength, and hasan avers emigrants to aid in’ preventing the South | are satistied,” is the announcement, “from | so) fun about them, but *eem to have been

streams and dee

g incr.Led on the pages of hiscory

. ot ’ . “ Pewenty niles. Would vou like to . : . . . . : -o have bee able . . tens ~ .: we . She
cims pers cf the “Tama sin breadth of tw enty wile " ‘ aie a ,| from taking possession of that portion of the | all the light "e have been enadled to pel ou committed out of pure malice and spite; for! 1334 he joined the itineraey, and singe then 1 sion th
ues cate this inland sea? wn J > a ae yous ‘ is subjeet, that through the interposition o la an nine. is ; eta. ; qy: Shey) endo hal: leins, the s us
Basten gee le eanae formed of a’ hollowed | United States called Washington. Jeff. this su eet, dence, the backl te the ex when the poor boy complained, his young! he has been engaged in the faithful and con- Bele ve Ol t
sale porters | sulin a mide van “ , rine Ml o ceoeninee | Davis. will loubt be thankful for. this !* kind Providence, the backbone of the ex- perseentors always flatly denied that they | ccientious discharge of his duties as a Battle of New Onl
3 . - oan, Yad dee os st ereepine avis . C 2 ank r St ae ne hon caleg . « + ay . . < } ;
trunk, and propolled by paddles ¢ creeping vis will no ¢ | pedition has been broken, and that we have |p veyy any thing about them, so that he had preacher of the gnspel.

aoe : he le
nfatizee and iv, on the lef

shieh are skirted byl aaah pi here ds far “eo danee . . sna fr Feed nadie . : . aoe 4
vo i" an wrens how! timely hint, ‘There is far more danger of now nothing to dread from it-—The expedi-| not only'to suffer their cruelties, but obtained These facts we have gleaned from the au-
eur savage ¢re . "

. an the South seizing Washington than of Spain {tion has just gone to destruction, and proba: the unenviable reputation of heing a liar.| tohiography of the reverend gentleman him- ue. €

and! vell, and mnike an incessant noise with horns | seizing Hayti, Congressmen, too, should | bly drowned thousands of the poor devils | Well night his master christen him “‘Ish-} cote” [tig voluminous, well written, and ex: , 4 Hyee
¢ land tom-toms : an uncouth and ungovernable | aye nto rhea ves they are willing to who were induced to embark im it. A few) yoo ” for his hand was against every man, | eoedingly interesting. We most sincerely ' which’ w Be
wranele. whenever they ple: When going! reeagnize Heyti, she will resolutely refuse of thebr old hulks were at Hatteras, but Hand every man’s hand was against him. The hope that it will be published ; and when tT ce ee res Ging New Ocleans. J
rangle, whenever they please. KOIDE reengaese Mayes aan such a crippled condition as to be unable to} ue seeret of this hostility was, that he pos-! js given to the world we have no doubt it lth, 1815, when the drawing war @=

the earrmetcess cf

lemon ofthe errs:
Mm Eeven O We Tap

. veces nm opytromitye of at Of, oro . . . t he
> trom Ujijite the northern ‘ stremity ot the to take their “cuntrabunds” armed or other) wake a movement, or even go back home. | cocced a proud and independent. spirit—a} il] meet with much suceess. pleted.
jan lake. in order ws avoid its inbespitable he ack 1 wise. * {Their grand army, that embarked on board spirit which showed itself’ in his manney and The church of which Mr. Willams is) Tse repert No. 8." from the Ameren
: orally cross over opposite the ist a , t, is mostly i ’ oan Be cr , wey eres 1 2 por tes the following
iy ally cross over opposite the isk | ‘ . of the fleet, is mostly in the ‘bosom of the gait, and which consequently called forth the pastor is in Lombard street, between Sih and Army. cormbarates the fellowinz inte:
Wailea Were furnbsed is

te . ar . , ‘orks t This “ape me COTE » The Be vi . . . ee |e , :
Joa lone, narrow sep ot i K, ——This week we conclude The oneMmy | deep ocean buried,” or safely in Davy Jones's | fated of all around him. At an early age, ! Gh, It is ealled the Brick Wesley Church, S2"ements.
L twenty to twenty-five pera es illes Mins ‘of Haman Life, an ethical work of high re-jJocker-—We advise old Abe, and his tribe he felt that he had a right to he his own mas-! and is attached to. the Methodist Episcopal author af
: et Ser, VErere onal : € . m1, sae yee . av je . ale} . 2 . . . . wat . eres
of a Us tour or five vf oxtre me wre q th, v! H | pute among the Chinese, and supposed to | of kangaroos, that they had better be making} tor, and he determined to runaway. A sine} Zion Connection. Tr isa neat RdiGee buil: Americs
Wi vedtudinal spine, like @ hogs baek. , sagles fr twr atis setting in aeains . +. -  ehi er wos . >
high, longitudinal sp.ne, hk : i |} We have | tracks trum the wrath that is setting in against gular resolution, this, for a mere child to) of brick, and capable of containing about six

4

ren

out of rengh save been written by Confucius.

- e parte are eaitivate -its wild i abit *
Seine parts are cats ated by irs wild toh thi i wiven in each izsuc of The Pine and Palm | hem.” _ {take ; but he acted up to it, boldly and stead- | hundred comfortably; but. crowded co
ants, whe are much feared hy diwelers on) given mn ciel est . | ‘The Mobile correspondent of the Memphis | ity though it cost him much, until he sue-| saioeation, it may eentain probably a
he mainland. At the top of the lake is} recently, the choicest: specimens of the reli Appeal is evidently laboring under a similar ceeded in carrying it into effect. thousand people. « n 3
“wena : son, Cemmander-in-Chief. end

Tetra alo For ven aves, jyoryv, bark- Tone “re of © feast « “ost—of says ane ‘ ; Ons as ’ ° * os we vr. . x

| vin, a dlepot on yenng slaves, Foor, fr gious poetry of both the Nast and West—of concern of mind, and in consequence has} [lis master was one of those anomalies We visited the church a fw Sunda
. et " rare MCh are CNes : . . * ! . ne . woe FOrnideneoews . ra] ~ satat = ye . .

loth, grein, andl drew ware, WICH at Y) Persia, India, China; and. of Kngland, | tained his mental eyes Providenceward. | which the Southern States so plentifully pro) oyenings avo: it was crowded toa exce

nt ee Uyee live north of the lake, and to | Germany, and Ameriea, We will continue | oy ‘ prepa . : ~~ ad the eviend sv
‘fhe we Lge NVe nor © Pn tsays their doings are ‘extremely mystifying. | say he was a hypnerite, who tried fo serve!) gs) -Then Simon Peter anewered, Lord to, Were SSiLened The Qed SS

tot k

Dwere just atthe righ ter the ad

oumn cf the British. and tas: ¥

Writing of the Unionists at Ship Island, he ' jyee—a Christian slaveholder, ‘That’ is to "Lue picacher week his text from Se. John. vin

alt

er Tuer
ipart rnnes of land wi

*Dhev occupied no mesa place. and Gd ro
mean services. ‘From ohet decaments a
my posession, Tam alle te Sate the nor
ber of the shattalion of St. Domingy men cf
color 7 te have been one hundred smd Biv:

we . oo bh are 7 Tweirge « 7 t “¢ To dntend shortly to republish in: . : . an . . ; aut Qo oan sa oT nee
no the west of them are the W ira rout of to dose, We intend sh " t me "sy A’eouple of weeks since they were there in {God and the devil at the same time. He at-| whan shall wa ent for thon hast the wort. Mambered 6, and the position c
whem are the Wubembe cannibals, and the) this manner the most eclebrated work of, creat fore Sow there ¢: , i : vgs she: ist on wee . ‘sstdiers. 8. The chart exnlans
wv ro 4 ‘hi blanders, who supply trees for] < * | tei I rp - | sreat Haren. Kew there «an " be eu but ‘tended chureh on Sundays. and eheated his) o¢ eternal. Jie” and. delivered an able = sdiers. The ie explat
agg weg HTS, et “ BOs Nae ‘greatest re s teacher Orsi : VS uw) abs y , 0 erent), . On are wave . Up waees . mds ti —s 3 ty
: i - caves, The Wieenhhn yo the | ; addi, the greatert religious teacher of Persia. | that it it has Yr Manone wh hi nit j Colored fellow creatures out of their wages on) and well reasoned discourse. Afier en: ; Bim he. nwo DLpcundess
hie daree Canoes, : av ¢ ie Pe : . me : , Wee opege 1 s ats . . ee . esapdye * aay . . : : . ahs Bluehe. two Dencunders: -¥
‘ek Mei the southern putt of the lake ; Phe “Africans at Home” will be concluded | body of Butler's .orces. lor re "i Inte oe: Beek lays. Tle could clearly tliseern the larging upon the importance of the subject ibe eer ve ap et men x wi
ip islands in the southe part OFH et wook. jare crowded with the for! orm candidates for! beam whieh was in his brother's eye. but} je bemarked that people often made use of, watiation, formed ef the men Xe
a] and through their country 1s the route to) Be ene ee eens ‘plunder and glory, who first lett Yankeedom | could not perceive the mote which impaired | the words “eternal Hfe 2° but did they ever | Orleans, and Major Dequin
Uruvwa, at a distance of nine long stages, War [rems.—The Cincinnati Commercial ; in such excellent style, chanting the abolition | the yision of bis own, — He was very pious— | think what they meant ! Tust ‘let thom re _ formed of the mea of cher & Sk
. ‘ age ata opmyingfcs Sg . . . ‘ . vee © are ™ ee ° . “she H \ x . dus t H ee - ~ ost .
ch rise above che where the coast trade terminates,” Fifteen says, the place where General Zollicoflir was j song about ‘Old John Brown’s soul mareh+| asa member of the Methodist Episcopal) geet a moment. It meant being ina state of | Uder Major Savary, seecad in eeamat
The sesetstion of these: marsicy marches further south would bring a travel-| defeated is known through Southern Ken-jing on.’ It wor Ml seem, theretore, that! Charch, and looked with holy horror upon! gatieity for ever and. ever with the Almighty |
c that praia grows upward of twe.ve | ler to rena, the mapa of the chief Ne tucky as Webb's Cross Koads, and the bat-| Providence hw aterposed directly in our | gyopy person who didn't belong to that de: | jy vlory The souls we possess will never j
on 7 Leg lag, . ‘apt ages ‘ ve . ; sale sate , “UP tn leet , ; . “ . Son. : . . a . 1 story. 8 3 : . "
2 stale nearly as thie aga man's | 4 me ae h o" the: ote ar od 2 tle should Le called by that name.—Jy the | behalf, in Jaying +g hand of retribution hea-| jomination. Te was not, in one sense, eruel die: and for this reason we should Hve tor.
one Jarkine-clores D Arab traders of a region hitherto untrod by | pect geidencen obtained. 200 rebels were lett | ily » a tants who e re Pre cae cy axppesivaly t : oe ea nen
moas larking-pliees for Arab tratler £ XY! best evidence ohtained, 300 rebels were lett vily upon the a lants who come here to to his slaves ; but was so excessively neglect-! attainment of this abject and seek for it
The severity of the fight} bring ruth and rain’ upon our firesides.”” | put to them, that. it practically amounted to | oyery day.

ac dlives and rymexs and the trevel | Huropeans. 15, ner dead on the field. — ry : Tay at 3.5
. os : . CONCLUDES TO, cEXT. . . . an eip . . ' er . me Vas . ae eu lt. aeisien
beige ce . i fr LUDE . Lecce eeseee I wed from tha feet thet int his verbal 7 innee upon, or generally as {ihe same thine © for it eased them ereat suf The next question was, Haw sho => ++ tand of “Majer Lacaste s hataction of Louisian
WEE bape of ep, . . iS } ty 3 Bist as, . ws . . SS
, Sen th ficht tis Way, Gh titonsen tn Le ,
tepeey : me ewe a Wap UY AUR seed cee ne a OE vee | i . :

. . . . . . . ‘ : "ate oem .
Pattee Glavaierns oh abe TM rare, Hse wae F

rth Y ah tine, on, Sige al og . pte te 1, . yo 4 ’ eye yas , te tn ; . Lk aes fae .
Ene hin Ud ee Tine a Hine ena fe ahaha ue “8 fe bet ree fed as lout newt by the “torn of vino Power, . teh area ways pronounced tain it? Shall we go to nature for it : The} ee ee twe wEndDnl ants eget
i4 therefore a laborious, | the are cn Joyed ‘as eal ;- ant by the stick could he discovered th: I “as ih tl mt Hf asith great eon ilenee to be in favor vl Rebel- stars declare the glory ot God ; but tio they 5 wn thar hatte WH handondt ™
yore of the joan ite are p ose i : 3 ‘ants by the ie ; a 2 discoverc mt was not shat- lom, seems long (o have been aomania down proelaim that eternal life is in. their hands > ; 0 ant Satie, ben BI : er
joficers, and as cooks hy the ehldiers, and as tered by atlls.—The honors of the yietory PSouth. Lt issnoet long sinee that the Rieh- No: upon that subject they are silent—they | tthe whele number af sebiiers eluted by
jMeameters by the waggon masters; all re-] are justly due to Gen. Geo, TL Thomas, (ij mond News was ina blissfully exalted state : . 1 b .

: \ Shall we have n - ~* Americans to have been in that bettie wet
| . . : . bee . ave dumb. Shall we have recourse to ine: “he RRRAE GA Peed
0%, Berk to Me Arabs « te eojying waves, vary 7 uy i s senior ine ‘ : wot . arn : Sree ee sys “. ROO Te we ;
a zity the Arsba of the | cciving gond wages, varying from SS to S20, Virginian, the senior in command, and his jin consequence of the flattering intelligence fidelity? You eannot tind it there. Shall ed only 8.600, it wil be gwen thar the cen

During boyhood, his master’s daughter got
married, and Tshmael” went to live with
her and her husband, They were a preeious
couple, these twos Beelzebub's own children,

y

every inch of them. [fe was a Legree, of

‘el ono advantage by their, per month. with elothes : atl aly ave ine . . . >, the most brutal stamp: and she was a fi . yg en Solos . nt
i i tag jo f per non bh, with cloth 3 TT rations. Many have men. ' from abroad whieh led it to anticipate a war] inate fee wagh ; pew ae y af we goto Judaism? dudaism is the dawn color Wer present in meh Langer prepon
“A 1 OF ini Aton, find | employment at Che various eettlements sointolore Coldshorauch has oflicially an- | between the United States and Great Britain 2 ‘ h SUV a monsters for she earried Ub that preceeds the day; but we cannot tind 3g 88" than their mumbersin the country wan
yecalion balgs or orna in Kane. At Lawrence, Orawattomie, and | nounced the arrival of the Burnside fleet at; ft pictured to itself a diplomatic rupture— raw hide at her waist, and used to say “IT there, Shall we find it) in morality § FEC. .
ated collar of other towne, schools have been opened for? Pamlico Sound. Owing: to very serious dil} the withdrawal of Lord Lyons—-the dismissal was good luck to wear ite lieerate the backs Morality we ought to have: but merality ‘Neither was there colorphebia then. Mae

Lit f “ te henefi an early oer aeowaal Geulties I ounpace wet ie . . . . of the slaves.” They we chi nrve. : . an Fen ty ee wellness oa ss . og
ristn awanber their benefit, At an early period there was | fienlties lithe progress was nade before the [af Mr, Adiis—a_reeoenition of the South. They would whip, starve, aud without religion eannet save ns. for there is Hh Plinehe’s baradoa of uniermead vou

un (oh and ol ;, vent anied j 10 Kena what slut, or rou wth ult in welling the vessels over the bulk ern Contederacy--—ai and camtort trom ne ntl (el Staves, for the most pring Brults ne salvation in it. Will taking the sacra. &°T SOTIPMTEGS, aud Major Laonste’s tren ef
miele the Join cloth, it: dons for these destitute people; but all] head. The channel way of this bulkhead is Ppland in fitting out the rebel vessels, and fur. 1 Me et ened rete | ment de ie? Nog tor yeu may drink the Solhe. wrought togethers so else di
hte at it praetican ap achension haw passed away > thoze best | thallew, narrow and tortuous —-under tlie ntishing all ecded supplies atthe British i mirden to them: butasert af retributive saeramental wine and be damned at last Jquin’s men ofevlors and the 442
in raelry and drunken “able te judge of the ease do not believe there | most favorable cirenmstanees 3 seaereely ni | ports and islands. wf dustiee overtook them at last. Mistortunes Will coming t ehureh do it or att on line , Captain Raker “Great Britain had ?
gen bat oa fem Cone will be five percent of all now in the State, | ineh amore than 7 Le fect of water ean be; Whoean donbt that the \luighty fiat evertoak the detestable couple: the husband ° 5 . eS ond soldiers in that bath s the United
whe will in any | found init, Ht was only by the greatest ex- | has pone forth aginst the American Union,

net ; . to outward coremenivs 2 Ne. they are es:
took to drinking, and died a miserable death : cantante te ha tivat Britin’s Wee
jana thin vag beeen chargeable to the public pure, | ertions and perseverance, and by Hurnaee oor that the Southern Confederaey is) deerecd .

tum of

IC cestatically exelaimed,

e,
aaa

: fal nature, or who mag gel wo there,
ohahortes rad ty Gn

\ .

. sential, but they will not accomplish ic, Sites ane we

aml the danehter, widowed and broken-heart- . [mot aecomplistt it P eche Ural
! whe te

. Nothing will de debut feeine to Christ. ; freemen sn
wil, was forced ta return fo her. father’s | * ‘ feomng to Christ, and :

Toys, t

a

Ass Sain Vouarte relat They have jetaleenh}y « , ar eegre | every cathle axnedye eye . os : : : : . +3 tate Qc iereat Ye haley :
1 I . me re an he eg hive tera bebly shown te Mean th ry porstble expedient to prompl account, phy Divine Wisdom. ‘The dntlest worldling house (rusting ins bis merits as Redeemer States continued eniy balttee and slaves,
oN eat the lawless onapaee te “WW ats ‘ . . A . wr " 5 EU ppecs ‘ "i . bh sO, * . ers ~y TPCT gone . :
ee 5 4 ne tiles ’ arate te de aithout ait from while penple. thatour vessels of the heaviest draught - pthe coolest atheist, the aost hardened eynie Mowe o , tet 11 Axeumscrrn During the warof E812. Cape Perry wet
OPE GP bende & wipe 7 yet . . ssboeseccle . . a oe H . . , i outs ry : ’ nly . ~ : 3 . ss
poopis prevents it tone followed | Two contrahonds, who potion heard the} some of them chawing $ feet were wormed | might be ostrnek with awe hy tho startling wee events drave Eshinael haek to the cmon arte Commmadon Chaney, che senler Fees,

Cees  Behuaon and Korsph en teamed Adelaide at Old Point, for the pire] threuch this perplesiny: puts aad it was in

oft homestead near Baltimere ; and at this! GOLORED AMERICAN PATRIOTISM, sui The wen that came by Me. Chart

fand continual interposition af a power he. :
i | ' ! wer In period, aber severto struvele, he was led tw hi

g 4 " re hs Net initesits fron Moausbaz ;. ports of e eapiay ty the Noth, were, on ar- contending with thos diflvente passage, ours youd the control or cnenizance of men in he Phil seve "I Canehated ae metiey IAC NS, SUGHERR. at Woe

; thy ny of Sayoar, the latter hy val of the boat at Taltiniore, the: Cth alt. | vecweds cling ling whore, univotdably ope by j these attains, ‘The incidents of this strona wm haw Christianity, and beeame a member MO — _ ws . : Poss he ised ie seg veg fheg ty

ri Miaaga fat Baer abiged ta placed aniler gaard by order of the ptaser, | one, Chat opposition fom the enemy was first Fane se unparalleled, inexpoeted ant hae nf wane Vhe New Orleans: Disinstse, in an se peota ian’ The towing Teter
a pa of ede re wal _ and pes ‘Nitg wel aa ieee i ferret ve Spee mtbings the hint peeurtet, jeomntible any other prounds, il in ipossibte hie eae ae Shane wa I was and Sean the Peletraton Nat Wattle ot New wae NN Woauney i replys

; Ad Ws Fore pf, oy rally, In mad atin andl Uberquently corned lnc In on the pout i thetoneaae. . hs _ oe | WP aver the ronelusaon that the arty PE men he managed tt well for sme time, Bat new Not the least i tonvst ry , alte YW othe ‘duly ‘ uh Ses awe how date ne

’ | , ark : yewith all the fares and af nations are naw submitted tea super. i 1 mes although the “dy Tkdh Sips TU ohave heen daly bor

MW AO antes of the gb ige . . , hee : ep: . : 3 “ep 1 5 wre ; feos : * . . . ~ ae
iv 1 us a + Ma practic ene) | Point, io the sage sheen, Vhin deen tes ean taneter, would toa worst eertamty, ier dian Thad bat one sneh event oecured trouble were " we tor bin lis Mj most novel feature ot te preession vesters vl with vent letters off tho BN and sia
NEGO : pO fg . ; y . 3 apferrge: , an . ‘ 1 ’ eG . ‘ . ! YY : : Pa WES “on . ay are syste ' yout . . : . . . .

bitte std panghe. and the had foreing the non interference qaith avery with | resell in hia speedy capture or alestinetion, piomieht ba veekoned an oardiniay chanee master died, and all his slaves were sold] day. was the porsenve af ninety of the color ulema, and neiee your spacey Sr wed and

thee tenn partes fer Hise a veneenne . 1s oe PaAWAS A Very : : uly ans Ww MIS : in oth } ae ang
" ‘ en Gh Gen in . ati oe ittle jo vengeance, AD Hatteras Pnfet correspondent ol lee { But ene has hee followed by another amore te new master was avery had man. and lef ed veterans whe ben a vousplonous part in adieers, Laat eqnally savers ta fanish
ten Mane witch ne haste a safe . | . , aot , whe . 7 ' . . “ : vi ’ pipe . . ew vaya . . nes . ae aye yan, . . . . .
Prenton atiel ne hae ally piven, Contralands are constantly voing forthe | Boston Tranreript writes, (One preat trombles wonderful than ate predevessor, while they all laut several wea sais whe were no better, the angers of the day they were now fer he you, and no tiny shall te hot fa stating
. hey knew that this new slave had the repue | dist ine ealled to assist ins colebratine, and Sovis amd men te YOR, as swags Gh palo

Mes peri woaid fd seer cunfort in tein bend te Poot Pickens, Cae heat Joad | fof the Burnside fleet] arose from pending phave an identient tenloney, and move dor

“ , . . . , 1 7 . ‘ . m ‘ ‘ et .

rea uy Gar deeeription Of the route from s! aa Sin apen day ly herping themeetves | into ualnewn dh her, and womb aise wid, by ine erable spuenee, lo the orate
, an D : soe ‘ : ‘ mos . " .

Kaan te the coast, nhith is for from henge in fine between the batteries of the Port > able one, a fleet of SU or GO veeeea, without ‘

; ; we nal ’ nao. [prowl None of them, however, and indeod

aay yt ti od, than in jesforningy ro daboriie 2nd thaoce of the yp -beds, that af fired Wpon | ANY one ony Foeseel, Cass Popdvenaded pulewy whe jn tornele of man's histor yo is move sinpulay
tt! ; , . , . ws ved HE
WE GIN bay Lithe better of ou froin the fattes the elyot venthh fave deta | danew the sounding, J We have hoon nan Hy Listaniprviahoel fom Che commen continpen.

mid, Wanever, jtomet be brely to ceseh the former, mul provele aie foiite Pwhil avronnd | cone five or ais ties, pe ' al

tation of beine very prod, and he quickly | whe by ther pved comdaet in presence ef Che | sorview will sHow are te send the them: this
learned that they liv on determination fof enemy, deserved and neeived che a wvbadon Take Loweret that vou aw aot pease
“hreak him, as Chey expressed it But! of thet iastrions: commmander-in et Dare with the wen sent vo by Masts. Chanplin
they soon fownd (hat they had eausht af ine the thuty sik yeas that have passed cand: Fortest : fies w wy Krowlalay, a part

fart, and avery tough one atthat, Bist | away sinee they assisted to mpol the invaders "of thom any nes surpassed by say avaien we

eComecatoathly tramections (han the arrest of

jcire aon, at eset oan the payne Os thie vubane, : tary fine ; ; gtd yesnele nie hitting wheel aie ment Inhenll those two Minister: on the midl-ocese Whe i ull they tealved ty whip lings but Tron ont hows, those fithtal men have vever ave tte the tivets s and Lo have wt or laa

Pot age Mhegelage Me Fhepy ra as Mohan iy. ‘ ye jarred al Portress Menon on the | fieent confiiion, thought when the Trent was annunnerd to | nate venta { he whipped He pat hs beta pattivipated in tho anmmal wejeietngs “ihat the ctor of the skin. or the ext snd

at LS fay! 7 Lan f . (UY ‘ . ' . . on i ’ : . . nmeashon aba an nibhiely ¢ a . rte . a ity: sas ; ern : canta ay. : soo

; Kaw s ue nth uf ee ‘ punta, bee | I Pa) voit Va ) coming: Vs Arann Pareorriod. Onder have heen |said, hat an dts seek aud tn the trough of | he ana an t . it \ ee us et Cw vt rey wh N “ vik entities Cinutings of the oat, aan tiv ac ani’s qual:
aft pet 8yt Vshsy ; 4 PLT La nh, prown conte “ P i . . ‘ . ae aene ots Me Mone : Voy; res reds ts . . . teat Ny Roary warn) octeky
in t ‘ 4 wie Ae ‘. Wee bet aed yo | rn a ” MM, ut Vhn I mened for the Conetitation fo raid from Hamp [fhe weltering antic, the hey ol the thick he wonhl eithor 1 a) Wy sent deletion Tf hn ‘ inh | va REE HORS TNE BEATE vase Heations se tstintions, Ub ry sary Og

nee att PANtAn ici Yo aebep |e . Ms py Todo wep py « : A . wee ' ereded ant inee ha HS perseettera oor wate only . + 2 yyy. Vortby coe Reaant doe obs se arcae ord

‘ ee an ini, My eoaeelerly pete hast wy a 7 , sins Sowere ae Cte Raaedes fas Ship fahossd, with fo trope, fends woud be dost? Who treamed that the billed hry "t ee rs " “ " mi only in t wiy mementos, or Eved but) Mirets ce Asa 2 ship, aid eae gh dow
ie beh Ege ait 9t at y eee TORY a Ob Gn cue gyre t yee: tle , ‘ . : va . ou) Wy Www, Was ome ete they el ptsstipe teliee a . . wee ete ees a anes oases and tha }

' nl uw ve aie ZOU titel Wow fa ” my meen pi mu thal they were abe | yeathout duliy chiot oloment in the stele would entos fen imate the attempt, 0) lay KS f A) ' Wi \ NY sue " te wn the ys ot the are con ae Met sca and howe pyle

‘ are soanilae mn wit alee y antationcd yanks Che gan ie ne ine rection, Tae Mecsas Baeroerios The Hae tbat mnetiond door? ‘Phe tiand af Gad wae: a ' ml 1 " Y Nitti seas he theut ‘, Whe none Cat Gey deserve wert vall soldiers bawe byea te sya fit ane

tocee are cmmabh adttanonts of Arab merehatte tomeme : “uy . eae ito wead where Ve Wiss wae? the (hanks ef the eountiy, and the gratitude te sevondisn ve: ‘ ser

ee ee hates | fey Mi Commny etytee vat seedy | et Bost ol Saturday fast onya thea ie at yot hove virally extended aver the world. Mon at werk and ahi nook hina al F ee SO ind te VENT Yeats, and | prvsre that wn

a bits Way, anes prcally fociliates We tran : wy ales, Cal seen ‘ ; At werbkandl ran at hi to kaeek tin down fat saeesedime generations’ Who vatlied with ill find dhem as osat and: wsetiiias ape een

realy, nnd that Detter da the Chacimnats (eile te puppet, Choir work ave uinght, their

Bat the stove, a Gill, powertal fellow, was] mere vwtity Wo respenes to Che summons af on wind ef veur vesset at toasr fT ean
lene foo tel for the master, He eaunbt him | danger Wheendined many oheortiliy the jndsw by eomMpariont, Hy those wield we byw
Oeste BO Detar, the Caio Vooalia, [bean the waist, threw hin vielontly on the | hardships of the camp, or tieed with givater on baat dis ship am attentive and ebationt
aller an abeones af revert yeata, haa te cre, amd Tat hin very nimehs Pwo f cour the poriheat the debe Ud in hat. and, as tay as Lean judaw avan of ihent
boned to New Bagland. and is now pivinp, a | ited persons wittessed (he sontlle, amd | Tacantans hone when our heres wen men: execdlent wamen at amy rate, the men sent
retina af ponent in thee neighbop inp, eitivs when Chey eaw Willbans Maiteh inte his eet with the herons af war, we did not dis WW Lake Bde have bon ‘wheak wlth a chow
wed towne, nl [irepren fo furnish an enter Merely they sul up lod lnetrvaah Well] dain teeall upon the volal population tras oat sending a fer ay wt peuy claves
Faint do hie old: fiivnile and new, ae well they miieht, ane all slave had bad the | sit in repelling Che invading honte, we aid seamen, amd piste, upsat “evan.
we thie partie pommpatly, in the City of No »pivil at oho A Williams the ctaveboldons | should not when the danger is pasts wehise Gan, it vidi ke fond they are yaad te chase
Hee, ane dong MEY Dodpe dining Mia toe |! the Houth wenn have hoon only too glad | to permit thony Gunnite with as dr eetebrating “apo this lake” ,
Hhrenph the Wester States won podilen In net idl ul their honictiwon aut any puive, A the vlorions event, whieh they helped ta Daeg de Dorr exvitement. the athioad
npiniena, mud i be te bo hoped received athe [Ele e be jetitiod in takin bbe Uborty AGATE, make co memorable an epeoh deat history | population of Rhode tstand macivedt high one
clantiol pollo vatiine everywhere," Tn rasta, whethor Iv divchoa ont his amaster’s | Wewore not doe evaed te Minato with them “panies thea the pyers ot the Stato ty
this hunt of ane eonutey ne peril, nya a brain with on axes aa Me Williams owonkd din dhe aay s they wero net tae hitmble te choir eondaet. The NOY. Gbeeter ana Mos.

oA ow egacn She yest Haportant up Gen, Pfadleede es opedeg fin Hanning over fe the
Sree hie cabanis ‘ oak Moone, wiony the OQansleruuster the WN eaves wt Sh) Prana, be
Vuagndhas, ate hie in Aueers of Vhitehed he
wate, eurrainded aitiy sdercbades sacl meat |
For thes prarpee uf defence, Shete chief as

rattan, ao nye, in his Sapper aml pees,

pibee git a bight hand, wad claims Nis myeet bake Shen whe eoudd prove nobis, be, rap
ahyeet aubeniecion froin biz pode, der pregen 1 pele ie Hie ned due cond not be bape,
a yatant fare bation theie kaees aid with cone bude fo rine Hy ane gecencn the ih
5 hpi bande Vheeurrenny i in praeetoiny | vind: fren pn steelers ylie dniplit dw
heela, bat Pagers aber of ahich is eonstunt pptewling connl Phe Uyanfore wiete to
ly thanging hy the freaks of fashion This ,foen Waller k tes wereain geht wat the Cn
fue ian cates dingh, ehanehed in trode, Seeemmecat demand, and ceeaiged tye fallow
that Pie a Vind of Connon rrolnaveus far ing bad] cof stecreass, sensed dey Piss Hse por igo, suis Gd

Cringettes, full ofadetaile, comnedos Chat the Hays tated iene dareaia tates Coll y
chip Prenton, the berest and tiat cediel on
by hin hebb te work uid the Ciegern [oot the whale that, fail to perforin rofictie

tien vere piel corti Hepenses, fur clothing, Fevily. "Phew with wo hind of imolodimatio
nu dt ohenryec, the fieta chouhl he ctatoed
What lina failed 1 Plog offer Raote ia af
Hesated: fidelity, nod on edatltal olheer, nnd
there da one faibiee da hin Lat the trath
eon onal "Vlas pesveloy loins hy thin fre

Ae, allawiny in the meetnye file WSN Cosgen Fey

ae bt prectincd, weengehd ape to dhe puget
pute, the astounding meuneemeadt in an
Hoven: edie de panede Cad The firttne teen
the work contynoted fur hy Con, Mremont

: . ‘ Not in the qwork dene, op qegelentenl ts ' , ’ ' P . een ee
te ytd healt neygony of thas detect i wilt hie tes Ct of ages 4 unpre jude ob renedey - tony 4 hin hint } ' tt ' " \ ; Ine Woalern vililor, toMy, Volpe fa chaning peeal hive atone, a Unashing hime with bis Insiwiy Jere bepatenies pata svt Thy whood people of Rhode
{ ; nop = : . ’ ’ win, dn contritote . ' wo ‘ ‘ ms ete “ay . ? aba . : wg hear oe ‘ soy i >
wi snakes mesh cotnnins Ion cen of thea i The Missoni Bepaliioni ta bill for nd yer re ihgien wide | OT “ _ i, ae poml by hia xed stirring notional sangs i tna Willinnne lint, in orden to obtain dhat Sieh, we Chink, is the tutversal pinion [start deserve (he ast optoten amd hind
' .. : ‘ solely yer of he peti ' ‘ 4 ' teeta y oade ‘ I. re . . tA. . ron . .
AiR, Whe We NG iste vy He MYND Werte , ' , | , l . Weotivaly « . Herty whieh Gal yrive te nll iy vy outa wititen: Wooo . any | eling + ie Yaa S: Ss gdeotes
if 1, WNT WES siyas Di a re rt, that they 0) fries, | VL Obra den hint preconted in the Wt Hyrule hy My whieh poets ively He OVO pontine ’ " Uf Poefane eiiitene, Veovone wad with many fooling wt every vitavi ot the Sistas Gee the NS

Atmorionn eiticon fy fiver al awalining lye | eden Phe tated aanstern, ater here vedtonday, amd, without oxveption, ther ov. eendaet uving che Weent tabla tates 2

mong ilulyss for ne xen in bedebernun poz | Hodesmnn for pouling Man, pih205 evens
’ . : . . ' HF * ayn iy . ‘ nee . ‘ sgh . > ¥ * de . + . “ys
Comatitition and the fawaot the eaiety \. ’ ciel Vie Cet waa Nation ith pventon | pees a Appr abetahe din itatiow whieh Yad Paw itenes Vhey powptly valued

“4 1 .
. Prerdelary ote Paneday wok apainet ‘
ole, Of ghivernthers for eatebing teen y : pated Ue

a '

Shee mhale of the rogien Natneen and Pah ilf teen, BAO; uthing furnished neque, jaeaeaet ales ee gerund fantail iy tee tres eeeseee wteete teem (Ent, Ceotine Chit the shive whet he despised 7 bear ov tonded Gy Cre ootons vetomains Gr dike Chet servions fy ayy dade dr owhivh cher
~onbertt ting tae Nokes im ondlead the hil af BUM dE  Votal, aceon hander apa ten. ir nen without lew “en 1 '" " veh Glee dine wae tenuly ded wily to petve: bine as send a part in the cormenios al qe days and pratt right be wsdl ta maintaining Taw end ob
mens wid tan yieden of inbor reapaitl At Myers allire, tney fives vente! Vier at sean ges much je ; lca, _ . mn hi iH ! uy , vii Ny vant want wey yave te anather, | eation af sent them iy a vorspionmits plave ; tor Vy ants of a tending UyAWIAN how
rien y basing prolly thickly set aith endl il WE be cern thot geezer tment allivinte degunndd ial lavity wvh bn ifs a thea ‘hea . i" Tho Colored Pronotarne of Uhilndelphte Io» Fonully, evetaimed «OPT mw md get WP an the prwessim , pombe fir tho purpase at aetitey as 8 city
Ingen, and ‘emul Lin Lurnvinnt wnpatation, Hin preg of ver S700 by Mee pw fe nat a at haut . ‘ my Ni uu yyw umn 4 wwinsa une! Wi Pie and shoot vou, ven In they The re eetibility ath chee Appeee, aint he the prteetian of tho Wty, and
Vou gaerent in Sut, bod daderanoted vith dg Mlneke, oe poly for fed bok, mul in mil hie poctority Me Hnfiany i ‘| all A : ti tle pote: nal ’ ' Hetil ty (He Hanis, ata aever came ied 7 aunt nwdesty ot chote donot, wns an i extinpnish tives in arse at thelr eammaney
sno tr tebinler hilla WL iw very persed aes. | RUM eer in as an auepieton ob being ebiven inye hind Har ulead qh ' mt ‘ i. ihe | 1. Mea “lie me rate whiny Wwe Jagan ' , ’ pression on ovely ubaorver, atid olivited une while the vitioons wenw absent ov military dety,
ters of tavern wud jnfluanain, whith nee an [Ehime to dD emerge tne Me datas lenienee settuanlod ty he an mn I we ae nani iw " [hes aveateonened pie Ot trther acon lta Mivatey nwt Nee ralittedt Appiebation. — Mdeed, thongl fr The tithors at these peaplo wr Aistingnish
raaveeshe Ayecnede Uatsees se ase Vasa evensd ¢ sinneae tay | Meteeedieet, lish i initielly youed sifeul ! i ht eee! Phitelphhis we hive hoon anabtod to fier olghe ty ul nltaokond hin, nypmentiy zvvitay se wat aby ned aoa dixivepeot iy any bad fo thely patetotisny wnt byevery tie be
bwolily yn fiagtin of ye preapel ia reelion|hy An enaden vue seared boy Hoe Pvt inne ae . hae i ye ve 0 “tt wn oo elyotonamdaeites webately ae connie farted dee ditentine of wnunraton fing wi NP ane ele, wee Cline thant they wetestitded de Dae at the Rowstitdon, amd dhe Rhode (stand
monk, weed cunnied beng up Kypitinl flr din | CSA > nat, dual mnth ewig Ml i , roathae Mn i ‘a mms vh Aa mi " A Mn. nH wih vi lovey Aen, hans, doapialn, Wwaly ale onan ‘ It Ins vidodly thie vast Tratstoeet Honig prt aft tho j vatutnnd Wwalnent Anught, AH whe Neston,
fectifrsen 4 tars Wan grinned erg uf 1] dark Nercea eyes Aay hits ‘wld, Ayes alinnlal tnd fy ie hits nenth Nn ie vt i bie thie sate ae wee a Hally sured in ow i wt " _— A they vertainly nitrnote the ws wat bate Chet wuibor ae rai weet
“5 . : ree vee ‘ ' uy, Voprote then wend Aa an ater, told Ute ot the tontlon,’ “y vient { vey hae whis
regan coli, tell, nnd ote built, with endegny | giey tiie fa ane hoy Wye Daeg bere et Med anaes of menaediondy ied whey ried salad Mra Pantie te nlovery HE nor hh Conttoth pane, Uyglit, nod all icy! wishin hin i" yep " The mittton, ator (nether ranks yh he] was nag ei esl a
\ s

hit, nod thin shoe’ bonede, — Cnotai ;
’ i rlajn dat (jourt, so at yen \
y nrlai dattod Court Wajeael far lee yuna pica Ab WU Ti ir bor Ge Hilthonre, fo PHO, endl dhedt nadaotatis alive and whip hw, prvwvesiony, amd ating ofits ealuwd) men: ‘ hovatedtly patriotio.

nen mame

i
‘
:
i
:

A LEAF FROM PHILADELPHIA, :

Purapecenya, dan. 23, 1882,

Messrs. Editors of The Pine and Patan: ' The
curse of writing is endless itch,” but trust that the
reacers of The Pine and Palm will not suspect one
of havin incurred that fearful penalty, because they
ocvasionsiis fin? my pen scratches among yeur
colnmns. Dwelling in a city whose colored popu.
lation numbers nearly 30.000, Lemploy my leisure
time in observing the mere prominent features o!

axigty, and in noting its movements: hoping there |
by to de able to amuse your readers i Dee not ine |

siract them. Ishail endeavor to avoid tniversing

the groand almaiy so ably explora by your former |
eld in which |

wae z

correspondent 1. BB. S.:
voor talented Inquirer is prosecaiia 3 research-
es: bar [shall prospect aroand, and, whenever |
ne a ead, stake oT and apprise you
Ithink a Leahy chanvze in the pub-
apparent. thouch as
he faals is

under-

Fours 2

Preshvierian

unday e

ast S$ 2ning.

vlare mea

LAsOh, 260
hey tO,

f

nf % OU

ereter ie iter 4
JON D EE Se GES, al

, te Bate ete Ht
aot abestante Of My dotcae mas meade vor,

a ee ken ay

sa ter sees, ary, befure

rf os,

hate

ae
HAA Wiel, Shae tte,

fertiel 0 ©ORy ta Laid wet orth ander

: aoe

Tia

eoates

sweourt atl

4

Le, wiht ou,

Ayan fret +

St ot LOU SES, a Ae

4

Peay ter,

Paeiih te cabich
he of peculiar inte

people, Aitug

at a

Pry the eke tay ot

5 i ARCO Sr cr ea
fae te pa wise nen ot fue
AME $

af anges fe tha Ponte

4a Oe

LAL GT LOR BERL Cm thal aoenion te

MAR RI A VE at ah, “nich char

Mr ANY

BOOS eal Casares AN

Oka AR A Gast hed pelea tance to ahthit io

te?
wath
the
TEBE MAT TAT thet It OPheE tn Manlest

ryt

. fp tooo ” 4s :
2 fess Afrinn fatity, SEA Bhatst

ee WRT led pte PERO Eb

COA AS sear iy Men ee) Shaaban

“6, Fateth

Gaann, det ph

Pee Poss Biter, Bee sty ane atgatind Muy 14 ere tien be nse zie thas
’

fot, Kenert kote,
Ot att, Cate bite nat, Gent Crateheii, desea
ro Wat Heb ges +, ten y play
Sn afar ee erie Bagh ut at on

FED APIO K SD TUITTY,
OR a mek at he mI a tty es a)
a Ge en a Mende, TV it tas pain

PROUT ROA TUL AL Peis reae wee ln frog

tem gerternanes uf bape’ netetfe, GO Weld tn the

He Stay ie Mate Hetttin, AP thee le io the |

acca ‘ . Ogee D 4g tty:
4 et OD ptt ie a bp the With,

A CD raat Ae Daina Olan he naan
eae, eee teeth getel Pots Gi, UV nen nde
Set ty sites tae tie aun fea baad

aay pit, betta inet 7, Ub Mit bea af
Vp ty atom Aa Rain Der tie UP tae fare
Ahan es 7, Crete Vey tare tinn Of the

Matera Conn dtl, af fate ahha be part rotten,
ROLE GA I ADE CUI ty Vis

Gate et pea stata Be Ee, bee Tet, the
Ne PEER i Ete eh be bey
nT Bg BE SNS, Ute itis Sh,

Abevltasg

tearing

ON aay

fra eget, wake Cape ute) fee Mee fact

Vi

Sas NE te

, ae gaernit, au Banas, Suty Ve,

Cre tin Sa tA Beagrie, 14h, Me fenanibe ne wed bee
tae nt enh Baitang Oued pected nel creer
ee Zt UTE ONL Het tat d te tly bie Prete

a tb coca tyfem Vintage iy Of Seentte Antec, wid te cep gelege ee pacino beg erick:

Ye pelea te IO Werte wget omifedd bag thee teste
Re eave af ‘Pheetnna Steen Vigesee taped
Core te tA Miia tia AOD aE bat epratlin,
Batten hiya LG

>
Sa tst

this city, the Rey.

Nix. 13: ‘Be of cood coarace,

omumbers: not hy

tthat the adage in megan te halt a loaf, is applica-

the jalesng

PELL AEN,

be gablle in regular fortn, the peseagee ae bad inarked for the purpose,

NEW PUBLICATIONS,
Brackwoon's Epixrenen Magazine for
‘January. New York: Leonant: Scott & Co,
Boston: Croshy, Nichols, & Co. We need seareely
remind our readers that this is the organ of Tory:
rism abroad. Indeed, were any
tihis particular, ail vings
J completing the perusal of its contents, Which con-

one in doubt, as to
would vanish om

feistof the following papers: Wassail; A Christ-
mas Story; d. Mo W. Turner, Ro AL: Captain
/Clutterbuck’s Champagne: A West ladian Remi-

“Hiscenee Chronicles ot Cariingfond: The Poor and
a—Our Frozen Fron.
The Prince

Jtheir Pablic schools: Cat
ter: The Convulsions of America:
Consort: and The Nation's Prarer. The first, third,
‘and fourth of these were commenced in preeeding
* seen them, and not believing

ble to these productions, We have passed over un-

ed, tint portion of this number, (nearly one

OTUs

aces which they occupy. The article
the painter, whilst it ac-
as ans artist, comlemns, in

Tumer,

nee ofar creation, that is
dread dilemma which arises
menon appears, splendid
» bur deficient: in every
amere human creature, may

—the

en phe:

Academi-
“the

lyawing a sketch of the Raval
and carer Su )

hed the works with

ises, su many various
calm, without leaving ove
rence behind him tu make
rtof man,” the conciusion
iy wrong tu humanity,
tO genigs, 10 attempt tu fuist this
4 ¢tvat man, or to scck tor hima
«2. Of all countries
hh) be the last te receive
heart, or to justify before her children, on
pretent of genius, however spleadid a polluted
Ps contracted 20ul.”

we bave read with the ereatest
and Their Public

selon the

nv

ors
‘

sunsets

of sturm and

paper which
is er i°The Poor
ure? Th is

v

o

P Governinent, are thus happily

serits Of perigticals pubtished at ire
: from Uae

very Ltle

On thaw cesers paibs,

1 te) recutnmend them toa
267 force thet upon naties oF
There is nothing piquant

tenor te the

and corainty
° neliher

fey thes are mot
sof any popular authors.
rola famenyrot the liche
for, until very recently, they
Nee, and eveb pow, thouwsh
nt, they are notof that. come
iyon Cab bold js Nour hated
ov tonne abont the roots;
ny dove at the dba
cuit the caver caprice of
woud Ser lies ave very ine
egadning du their way,
an: iwha, and embrace a wise
4. They ate anor: inetiuetive thi
which are pretebed and publi-hed,
1b LGre aman Than modern philusophi
APNOEA, ak ae ehe in thee
Hated ebeap ceria. Tt ahey app pon it
ences. (Guiier ia preiy dress, thev gnight
veta better iptmequeton iba society, [nat they
are the chitin of the State, ushered into the
ot ae fide circumstance, called by com:
et plete patite, and diteded all wlike inn eort of
soreness liery, ‘They are kaownns the Blac
Mooka.

‘This paper iewell worthy of acarefiul reading.

,

aad

We egretto fod that our lindted apace debara us
the oumerous
We ean

wetter

from trauelerniug tour colitis

cote Beets Pte Mere. ares OH TE

Bits Ofratianton: ainony the penple abate” not ae fale exasaples of the whole, by any

totane, but rather te semind perons of the Busall

LA atbaitalie reanite ahold, Kasecdhal the Danton Times, that they

need nat travel tar from home, to tind melaeholy

Jeataners OF proce dynosanee and literacy in

flaa-  poations where they chou not be tolerted, Vhe

Derict Camminionera, inthe couneol their in

BA Ee Ny tee nile then thes Poutided eet none, taivle many inquiries in reyard te the

Faye ae ineane, finned and educational, of the
a hate

“Ptle bat little pe they paya, bat then, to be

Gnoe date, inate team joterrapatery,

aisnd
care, die bat lieeae D teaches ei reply which

ween tad, Unht hee cored ina pork ray

fave ack Ooinprebeneivat niswer tea whole cite

Of RNC Ties Qa old lady via oppesed on

“

principle te suck “furpeting out Another, ine

pip (athe prated query aa te ters on whith ie

fret undertone
jeg the questa, Paneer thes views ob aadiny

thea Seibetee phere ae ne dettes wbidede the writes

Gee teat ae te be pended at tbe public cant,
aadetenriocd toyaniat He tusthenal apehises
ay Naa hs bd ce Poe creet pit Pa one

ide dean iu thee in
treet betel pe ah tea diritti! be ned

wae te allen) te dl hie pales

eel ite

bee Cab thee pubebin pracey at Phee enmne time, eas, |
shark be taeenet apes ta pedir ceeth bey Eat
eens Moserute, es bandh y fuecenet ane cathy tteeie

Photeeg, for catne genes tery Poorthien pesfrssotivot

Meat pen greginnt che, Pectdh We seated feger tee rae
Vedi ders, Fopr tiie prt titel Deebet
herent, Pataca ds

The iptete abet wil be read cath te feet cat
pL terete teed Aa ice ieee at Gobbi nee tate Made cide
7
Atental Vt tantaines eure touthe, bat nae
tie tabint gta, tel rise sidesty deeded te
epee aeiiee the eeettetttil telat tte bh the
Wane ie Phe bee gereat Sepabitbage booed at
Clie tee ett bered deg the risen ee eeten etn
Cree ine the Pernt wiale, etd tear pte ctiaplinn in
tebectete tiene the deter Of OF feerte stein Bhi abe
Peete ters te Cate tp tert Gb er cites: peed

“ean He dest

tien oh Aner atee othite asst dee aces deen tay

a

“Ehe Secident he cage, (Ds the thiaiee af a

Pe ae Cmte, Tut aaila, ie iti faved UNTO TTT a gertapede cebves Meee te adeed

eat ton Etrtte Ts Teed Mtn! Shh Got int tpend de tet ot
Pen teat hy, mb Nts thate fied y ie beanbag dat eety
tee cee ge te Ob ment BAT EME gent cent pete at
WO 5 renee pattern bean Pry,
ae SEIT Howls, OF, Pein, fat,
tenn betes 14
PUIL ONIONS
Swcties Geen year ta yar, Fogle just planer,
wate Flee Wars mbaesdy prete bonetl g big, ad He
ere Fe May ag pessedd bay Ne preted wt the
ba eet Atti Feb Dat wher em panes sth Ath ome g Ota ond ptade
Bare ore eg Wim ew Netty we he Capek,

PEALE aw Mthing tap s4eltit bps Peer,

CTT Ld Seta oe ee
ebay

tgs beeen

ee a ee oe

Vit te trp tty the
Chie bee tiage gy
eo ee Se Syeey toad dey
wet ctege tay Cah tf edn tee edad badla ded inn

P77 ef fre deecigenee eee

pore nytitee faseeg
Pre aye metthey Meee tend, FO Veveres,
Per Zed GW bAhtes ah a Meipesinety tte MeO beedee

Sortees Berd Ratcpeea se he freee: teal ween, bee bead
they fh eS ee
weet ot HN gwthee binee dabken iin bag He beater
Prt Ndi wan taped led big Meaees Hey enna,
Becgnts, mtd Wipseme, Ute thee wlflertatson, need Wenn
Beemer mad Meee, wed an Ob ent eet, be
THA te entire Needy Phe wmeeee terete porn.
cork wed TH fron that Aetente neh awed olde in
alge micas te bea ite pore lesan Meelaainthay ft
tose tte rials Nea bes Aa poceeeitvend, bare Pugh ange Mint
Pe tapsr dee phen Ebel chadies Gf ap Cloereitinny be day Lhe
permnns cmean Of taerden tlie deed lene tb yaeatlonntile
SL ce
lel eel
Bey Pea era ", AY han Yegey We BU Faeits beg Phe es pete Ni,
hems ree iW a AMM efearee tea the pints wil jebee
ee Him assent gs med fuxe Phinperedy

Pty ag renner) gop geen die Mabey Seti at eed ate

vate

fies e Vp Age Ay Ot dices petra de: TF ed ed foil, i

Nhe Ne EAB ber igeed Myer Dedande: tom Veeatfe wield Bde
Mbp ah tine wm yraed ped alien Ne ent tht ie
tg me toederemd bee thts dct dee Mit bere beds seuss
Vand, 0a Jd trad Wee Rimes erabecgted agrees deg enbel Wdeee Eheee the

Brae fsa tired cera ide ote Mebty We dhe tapedtabeas |
Hi ME IN Aanpwede ete We adeatioane fred ed wyerned |

OA Kentiliae MAVEN, Soild ual hin neh Phang
Bde mes net dne beatin beak fea mc odeapedd grente bee eponh
atlas pee Miter wpe ab Maijtindil, lint
arty lh teed bine wcrabeegstt phan Anethipea id TW ee}
HA a gewmpabety Aten ad Gdeterentie Viena, born
mreserety MOM PLR Arapteed otie, Phat tty bere ee Hyeen
Hee the welatrninee! it petet Ab el pbb eiptinn;
wlheingh Hh f tr yy tnd Mar stin © funeiie |
Nowala, wait Hix Hattah
Ghavtin

Ce Le
Dae denatn&d beep feneajrnisnt i

thet per dsee ppeunh phere oe ceeoten We Dede trtettede oa Perea (ee
sen Ob Deng . “dte
heed pte ed E ete Opt tept tet od thane a setearterd
te bebe de ot bee vee Paved y need
elle ed cane tee gerdengine, ie, tee bases Perens bebe portage ate
TON ele fo ro oc gebetben eek ceetnte ss tte es,
wed tty pence eht it tothe Det Whe eres, Noha
wert dieptecad fi eset dace Tees din
fete aabein Lee debe, son veteg ea Mab Coded, tee dpa ses
teetep  Beathale  Vercdinterdire, free the

perat we dede a
Herne nn

Haeety werden camel y

Peer aeed,

ee Nee aah ge See bade by test toes Deel oreteede preter then,
sete Dd Deretee bei de getepe the senter ene 7. abet) vis be
fortele bere e they Viet Dal Hhbe

DE teed tances fens bee ere gdh cee We cede Wert diaee ped

Pra Vat cet pet Nines Dee erk ee tite ey peep dtene Hlacet ba
Preetee Vee pele ees pre etatpentitene Fo Poi sepefe re tbe ayia
Ht pe epee tegbele Wbneetn ede teed OE Bled cute

$4p ferret tee De adte ed brane ade endian tfc denny need
patens tng preeet Hei npelitiong ob edd Whe sey
|
bdaretteh Annee. ce dee teed Apher ree ae byeh ety dace Teed

we Meat ey re abet benee be get ted dee ied tebe
nets Fagard toh bee oe beet lta ed be ded, oped, ee at ede, ee
OU pegs ot a ede ee bensngene dit tamdeote toh thee beet dey
OEM Ne ate esate: teen ete bleed fae debe qoradalie
seeeregesitigie fee as dbotbseeicte debby Peon a bbe
eee ND Loeneteeetseg, coteed sete doebeettetend Portbene on
Pron nee deegebiren Dies pert Vader deates Ly tone tre ie Mp tiets
eh epee dy adiede wencendhe eune nang odile dee,
MUP LE ee oe
Hirpta, Were cts dele apie ete dee sc atedeoede bilyedely
Steer carte Vie tte Merde cb on anenet Me geate
Nir Diep qeeneen Veerebeas Peet bee det on
withers tee eM etentged, dee thie C eengene ne
ee Ce TE Od | : wou
eee preemie etd seed Agence Pebed  nbereited
orbrertee ntegtlebens opeudhy  perend bee teehee bes
sets thes peatees gen ef beds COT LW Aa Pee
te detetlel fearele tate Cit Abet delete ee tlie antet ae
Peep b teat. teint nadie Gbre ernst, ttelton bee dies teerges
Hier dette, pedenen fhe gaedlued tid liner been
pbc fee dete We tea eet eed He aden, iin
Pa uf peratatne snebpapbenet deere, Clee Clee vet
Penetye apadveny Poste dteba eet futher Phd ie
eee ber paregineded Beeadted din Ate eded,  tlepeade een
nies andedy seer deebade goa echiileg lap intehiny th
Te) Le eT TD Te TT LL
OTT LULL ed Ye
ceash rte aden, MED Been egrcesed baat teed t des Wa THe porter
mee teh Win ois, be fertinge a play ed erdpeadpe
sobbed Bite dee tee ete tee ae pe 7
a

waherd Need Denes ba tee etetdanen te Pee tebdedy te

judge of tho animns of the writer. The conclusion

at Which ho arrives is, that “the South, so fav as

can be seen, deserves recognition, independence,

and sympathy, They have chosen as President, a

man of Judgment and conduct, who can give to

their impulses unity of action, and can both exehe
and control their enthusiasin.” The writer, incon:
clusion, thus relieves his mind:

“Leis to be hoped that, if war is to be, we may
put our whole strength and will into it, and con.
duct it so as te leave the orators aud writers of the
North, with all their shill and practice in’ the talsi-
Heation of histary, vo possibility of turning its in-
cidents to our disadvantage, and to their own glori-
fication.”

This tirade has aroused the anyer of many of the
editorial corps; but we confess, the cool imperti-
nence amd selsuficieney which pervade the arti-
cle, have afforded us much amusement; and we
have risen from its perusal with more of commis:
eration than of contempt for ano individaal, who,
living ina tenement of such brittle material as the
most fragile Rupert glass, so recklessly flings
stones at his neighbors, relying upon their clem-
ency not to crush him with similar missiles.

Tne Kyickrrpocker for February. New
York and Boston: J. Ro Gilmore. Having very
recently given an extended notice of this old favor:
ite, we would refer those who would learn our
opinion of the Magazine to the back number of
this paper in which it was expressed. To this
number, the Editor furnishes the second chapter of
his interesting scrics,stvled “Sunshine in Thought;”
which is followed by a “Chapter on Doxs, Inchud-
inv Qur Pers;?) “Adrienne’s Augusts, Part 2d;
“Letters and Seience, under Louis XIV.;? “Left
Behind,” by Helen Whiting; “Crushed Flowers;”
the concluding part of “Revelations in Wall Street;””
and “The Battle-Ground of Tippecanoe,” by Rev.
Alexander Clark, Interspersed, we find the follow-
ing poetry; via: “A Storm-Picture;” ‘To Steep;
“Flowers of Paradise,” and the ‘‘Alarum,’” for
which, if possible, we would eladly find room, On
the Editor's Table, we find, as usual, a varied feast
of prosaic and poetic daintics. §

ween nee dee

WESTERN AFRICA COLONIZATION MOVEMENT,
The following petition for an Act of Incorporation
has been presented to the Massachusetts Levi
ture and referred to the Commitee on Charitable
Institutions :

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Repre-
sentativus of Mussuchisetts in General Court
acscncrlend .

The subscribers respectfully pray for an an Act
of [neorporation under the name and style of the
Massachusens Colonization Sociery, the objeet of
which shall be to colonize on the coast of A va
free people of color with their own consent > with?
Hibertv to held real and personal estate to an,
ainguat not exceeding ‘Three Hondred Thousand

B.C. Clark,
GW. Blayden,
d. Pnun, E. 5. Gannett,
dus. Savawe, Jas. Hayward,
Thos. S. Williams, T. R. Marvin,

Win. Ropes,
A. R. ‘Thotipson,
J, ¢

YEW YORK cry YEW,

Fark at Z10x Barris Ciencu.—The
Closed on Wednesday evening, the 22nd alt, with a

wvant festival. Daring the evening, Madames
Masnan, Missalland L. Voulesany sang aniniber !
Of cone and duents, Which w Highly appreciated +
by thecandionee. Mr i Tlamilton sang the Cone |
trabands’ Sony, assisted bs the company. ‘Phe tae
Dies were plenitude sapplicd with all the host ies
Of theaeaon, The faa, whieh was got up for the
Senet of the church, gave gener) satisfaction,

Cantco-Drbss Batte—We hear with pleasure
thata commiaee of ladies are making arainges
ments for a yrand Calico Dress Ball, ta take place
at Mozart Thal, on the eveninys: of the Gth inert,
to atl the contrabands of South Carolina. Uf it be
true that Ubeauiy when dinvorned is olt adorned
the ost,” we mavexpeet in Ubis gathering to be.
hold our lovely belles, looking more nediant than
ever in the cotpeiousness that they are engaged in
that nubiest of youd works,

Grasp Cuaniry Coxcrirr.-- Madame May.
nan pave her abst prand concert thig season on
Wednesday evening, Febraary Sth, at the Zion
Baptian Charch, and was assisted by Missa M.
Vewlerany, FLL. Vowlesnuy, 2 Powers, Vo Maye
nan, and Measra, AL Powers, J. Wo diteobs, G. Ibo.
dee, J. Gaanbier, nnd d. Spetinun,

Aimer or Sravind- Last week, Deputy Mare

i
i
}
|

vhol Sintih arrested anative Mrican, maimed fava

Point, L. 0, by Appleton Oakamiii le appears
that the evew--who are Spanlkh attempted to red
him at Cabin, bat through some dead he mide
hizereape, He bs qaite an fetediisent mii, aid in
held aa a wbness againet Oabsamdih,

Winntas Dos abnsote wie ieated oon the
char of being superensce of the ahip Mentiuk,
whieh cleared fram New London about a sear age,
‘The Month took fiom the Attica com. $100
Wevroes gaen, women, ood chilies and sold
thea in Cuba,

LS Or rrerspe ag Vanisscn. For rome thav
pret, there dias been seme trowkle between the
Fated Staten Oottedels i this city, De apegessen thot
cone Hine age, the aehoontr Manat wis bibelled,
nibeewed by Mandal Minas, on ne stepleion of
Fittiogs out der ncdave vase, “Ele Mivpsdaad teens
diately apphed tothe Diateiet Attorney for the
BOC porpeia te nebsn fins veaced before che net
coll ‘Dhami seme acu, the Marstad diel aed
receive the papers woth weel attend, whea the
setonnen hak malted. deoveven, the ves and erew
veoecepplaed, Aner a erat deabot droable Te
Macvehal, wogeey ad the dbebay selilede get dude see
soeh trombde, emade d ate devestiontion, which
cot dade Bhaptoiai presided at dhe proceed
free, ee lebely cesmtineedd fie cectie dene. Thee Minectaad
morrted Chat the paper wre papacedy het back

Hey the Peete bet Atte, Velie, fe adleyeeb, wane bn
cob sath the etase traders Adter bese at
Fueict setteeotetet cof Fe ctintecney Pesta Veotdy poaptee | te
Herdie gone dies cept te the Tan Cubes avtth,

Heegetry ob the Peateaion, whieda cot feerdde ath ther
Fart Dey tbe ribeye wel de ce nenenpetjere thee fdas
Hered Atte s Cressi atl trepie beet of ceeddincdene, till
telaneeed Lite fen the debey fe thee patted cteada

fer avin cn & Mbeettercny Moa Caentyeste J
Sbeeceyen, She deed been tition y at Holler,
Atrio fea bet Vecotan Elna
wtotteate Hee Doeeueb Dy te, dart Peetsenea Poeoscee, eet deer dang:
Thee eee ee CN sean vey eter ens | adees wane toekeee
A eb biel es the se eced tans putedeage Panels beak:
Phe peaacites somvesedd fod Atiee Charet,
Done etert, here the fim od eens deen tek pbree
Vee Detected is thas at Gadsden ys at Capen Pdi,
Afvion

Us CO CC

Vine Maen ag AD BP Cereeutbebt, the
Hh Piece, bot preted der gebve bee dnt cnneeet
His concn at the Aly ctaden Megetict Ota ty on
Weelatecdiey evondoee Pedeoany 2en  Cbee ibe de oo
eden she GUD fee sracdatedd bey Appoo Jtpeswor geal
Preeftnutap EC esech

Hee nate gtr Miertae Veeeb rt Haneda,
thee cqeeetedne OE Meth eed the dts at tees
York the fondbor at Cootten {a pont aac deat, !

Cte Dectfead od the Pagel € tle, te deer eat
Vivaah Hy Wt preter icner, mab te ne Her ab Adee

| Nedeabetn, ae, at

i peltbne: bo dpeine anes
He Clty Phat at ns

Pettesecut, hat, teen bd

1 tse net, Wireee peep theedtae t

Neengetde bvedned teh btee a ctate ot
[Ce Se CY PT
subtree eb Ee see Statens
Foaptens py aepptetind Vere eetne eof

Ine
Whose

ee Sc
rey CTT er
Het gertercesel dey thee Yeah, Hae
tele le rerbeoer el gue sapelte ene: feoeee i teed to rate), the
Aeudisny ecb Marte gob Geers Miter eng dbs
feos aperse Pore bees te eogrese Gestee eon Pbve Pineneee oe dedibes Oboe
ferod deren veer ba, ated copy eae te cece aesdeen pees eed Oe
srebeen ee porapeetdet dente tel thee dhs ces neddeed Cacti byte
tet Phe pode lege cob Tite tebe Ger ther pereebane tbeang sot
Horvevsger a tioeead et trente nd eennnpie rey Vtey asqernaetde
Frege day, Da tte verge a OME ehieie ce ie
wlideeseede te Ne ede tie bene sed tte gdeed,
GUE te debe pet ented bergen snedde eee
Nov tee Misa reenten, bone ba
We ties pengdble

lege
synegeden bee
ede reel Phar de qrtecengee tee dt
Vieebe Post dgerebele dee corhee dongs
cm)

ferten’
seeder atte Clever
MWronhlyn Nave,

Chere eee de Pete Fe eee st Pee tee be dee a Pieter
fosg Peter Phe reer ah (brein bey Mabe er tread,
qreton eenepebede nteenae Pl Teen nee tae
rey Uncen, epeveeedeod (re Blo gebtnoceeh evepete dis, ek aad
Wher One neH D teb THe totes dea, deaeelly atornel
Drage pevesnen Ceeeedd Pree rotate tie Dh Acurenge Pipe e teltdenn,
Hirst ere a tbe ab Bae sti Abbot Vb bake
ole, peotba bord Tey Aba Beeps Eeedtlh, fone dab ad gad
(Cs Ce Cee ME opal,
seed Vent free re Peed ie rel te errdtoetttin, a tebe te elie
ohh web eithirdy miaets by bee woot ll Nena preredone ead
se FETE Bee Paneget ees Wete Misa Abare PRteethiots,
Fury Heer, Anat Siler, aed Wii dhe
tet de, feeder tied Ho de pound udtdeg lls

Pa Det Beare eareng Auer ae bene
P Jide Aco d tte lt Hed thee Phere tb eotead
Hub eee raion cn Weelieulig eecntieg, elie y
FN, et dee Tieeceddy ie Drevedtedtes eoeeene td of Wand tege
Hege nneel Clearerared alte tte A enretge Une gelesen wedi
OD, went Moe Feenegedneededee deren eek OD eee meted Cee
Ale dP Vagleaaige otsdadiie the partite, Al
fe Wavedagteens than ot Cie, an Min Postebue Vow
pedaeerege Ede tel Mo Dfecrenet et

Tee Ee Wet
i emit
Hide Pt peceteten ees dee edocs Plee Uebel! fo Chive ed
(CU Ee) Le
EH cL Pe
west ee Wnt HD Dede preg, abit queried Chee Otte ted
wed weeded Dhitie dene ete

Not long since we werd toll that the Ifnteh-
inson family of singers, having obtained passes,
had crossod the Potomac for the purpose of visit-
ing vur various encampments and enlivening the
sokliers with their spirit stirring strains; thus
breaking in temporarily upon the dull monotony of
camp life. But having uo tender regard for the
peculiar institution, and entertaining a holy ab-
horrence of, instead of a devotional reverence fur
slavery and the slaveholders, they gave expression
to such sentiments in song, as to alarm the morbid
seusitiveness of Generals Kearney, Franklin, and
others: in consequence of which General Me-
Clellan has prohibited the vocalists singing at all
within his lines.

The song particularly objectional, consisted of
Whittier’s poem, commencing “We wait beneath
the furnace-blast,” which was suggested to him by
Martin Luther's famous hymn. If the sentiments
ofan individual belonging to a denomination, pre-
eminently distinguished for peace proclivittes, are
tov creiting in the estimation of our army leaders,
the sooner we luy down all warlike weapons, and
succumb to the South, the better as regards life
and property, for we shall never be able, success-
fully, to combat the enemy, however rightcous
our cause. ¢

THE WHITTIER PROHIBITED SONG,
“EIN’ FESTE BURG IST UNSER GOTT.”
(LUTHER'S HYN.)

We wait beneath the furnace-blast
The pangs of transformation:
Not painlessly does God recast
And mould anew the nation.
Hot burns the fire
Where wrongs expire:
Nor spares the’ hand
That trom the land
Uproets the ancient evil.
The hand-breadth cloud the sages feared
{ts bluody rain is dropping;
The poison plant the fathers spared
All else is overtopping.

E:eét, West, South, North,

It curses earth;

AN justice dies,

And fraud and lies
Live only in its shadow,

What vives the wheat-field blades of steel?
What points the rebel cannon?
What sets the rouring rabble’s heel
Un the old star-spangied pennon?
What breaks the oath
OL the men of the South?
What whets dhe knife
For the Union’s lite2—
Hark iv the auswer: SLavery!
Then waste no blows on lesser foes
fu strife unworthy freemen.
God lists to day the vail and shows
The features of the demon !
fy North ated South,
fie view
tay au

not er
beioslavers, die FP?

Awl anion tind in freedom ?

What thourh the eastont spirit tear
The natiowin his going,
We who have shared the guilt must share
The pang of His o’erthrewing !
Whate’re the toss,
Winaute’er che cross,
Shall they complain
OF present pain
Who trast in God’s hereafter ?

For who that leans on [fis right arm
Was ever vet torsaken ?
What righteous cause ean sulfer harm
If te its part bas taken ?
Thoush wild and fond,
And dark the cloud,
Bebinel its tolds
His hand uphotds
The cata sky of to-morrow !

Above the maddening ery for bload,
Above the wihl war-drumning,
Let Freedom's voice be heard, with good
‘The evil overconing,
Give prayer and purse
To stay the Curse
Whose wrouu we share,
Whose stime we bear,
Whose end shall ghidden Teaves
Tn vain the bells of war shall ring
OF tritinphs and revenses,
Whale still iy spared the evil thin,
That severs ind estranges,
Vit, blest Che ear
That yet shall hear
The jubilant bell
That rings the knell
Ot Slavery tor ever!

y)

Then let the selfish lp be dumb,
And hushed the breath of sighing ,
Before the Joy af peace, must rome
The pans of prrify ing.
Ged give ud prace
Rach in bls phice
To bear hla fon
And, murimaring not,
Fauture nod waitand tibor!

THR PL

(wee? ee
TREK PROMENADE,
Linus. ‘
Say what yen wilt of the colds of man,
OF hia aoud deeply tamipted by ait;

Sull, letine belleve through tall, bean,
There bs xorrow dn the cohleat heart

Contd wo read tho avereta of every nou,
Know the motives whieh prompted tho decd
Seldon one lomgien work herald (he seroll,
Over which beaches ailendy bleed,
Woe cannot thik tan ng atteaty lost,
Mat thant dee divs dcniente of adits
Phong b recklees at Cen still, deep in tits aaul,
There da tad a holies dame,

Home gentry da ptevdig, with bla bene attend
ntbiaypea,
Hore convent oenedion ba athrid;
Hee dager et the Deut tow tbe te tte naned elbiagta
“Ptvcovggete Toba Upon peaeey crt ten nee werned

Povery cect bees Ha peeied, every hee Ht ened
Hoe ese EE be TAME Cede Hide tia lh fepant:

Thee bode believe, while tiieta hunton dt beara,
“Phen da nena bee thee diveelsuad fev,

Obed, don tel He unease

OUITUARY,

Pitrerdoes Navan Sat bavenes, coer ptgceed eeoteogered weonnnain, i bien
Ved deere ee dete cae thie Verb wend, neue attire,

Vive sont the OEE bh Sine wane Teddies fenean te
Hee tho eed tte tenet pa Ob Avert Phat’! ened
Foe Reravne apes weed coe Corned cel dean yet

Hie wee thoi by cere tobe atilbobtos, bat there
Wea was ebectanblahdag  thecchitead her dhab
Frege Urea cowee tee epebeete, YIN) TTT eT aE Ke ed |
evemta, ie Cine Dede ate tte ate Ade tyetaa’!
Ayana on ceo sense bee dbase Gaeveo dhs eet CUnase bese Chap eendl, aed
Horeolton, web aes et che Drelinnathon of feateposty

Hone gets cd bine tea” bo te bey ad
Pea dette Site bares feeaenatl  Wavotitintdeere, sand
ie LC CSR CT MT TRO TST

ee eS Cod CT) TTD YT ee | TYE
hee ct bat da verbal OE te com ad
Hoe v v debt Pe tenedo, wy dice Grothe gate Geoteetatat Toe Meare, avout
Vo puenttied tea tree proeeotebe GGdelyoas Clee veer beonea Sheet
top tbe dees cot Daeg Reenpea totes Voeenbeeedevodl  Eiesuensnl cel hep
fetid, Whe tod beet Panel te ten, aeeee gut fee
RU neo Nae
ye

CDNoiny qevegonsten setgecneautones Heer ebecred Mn aot an eterpeten quaveeteal
MDG ae deeby GRAD epee, et ttees reel ate ret PG pete, Te
enone Fee Pre Wore bee Petree ow bede Ebesepegnge  Utbetageen
howto bbt ola aed contin wit Wha ab tie
Weel Phe tae ered deeb Ppa nti fe OM he anon
sehen, coteed te delet dae Dbeso ened deed ceetepe pee bbe
eto ebooiie te Waterton, wheat be geattod
CTOs OT CD OT TS OO CTO ED
Coed Banned, oot Vosote Cbbesete eaten otenpty Vbbgtl

AG dhs atevehe ced Cad Ebap ead ber waned dee Kita
weesto Fae Forse, Cee Dee AGE Peesennenan ten, Ete treet toe
Weed ad thats at tee atti et Voahtona, aml
tebe Pbreene ge vs ot bece Fee PPbee ane dent Bibel ebplennna ved
the battle tne OE el ait presi te ban aie
Ldaereee dnyes geen etnepeer Tey tnese A diae Teeter Tetmeeay tr Tedaoy feet
whet y sortie, Celie gelare fee ite at Galle elie antigen
Vibe torte t peo fo pit cenenpebok  Mbeseferle cnegebel qeenst
meh Wedte, Heretic deere tatgebe lig Abbe Bitar
Hioed adostie Hebi a agaitoe te Wben been at
Henge tf Dee Veceoppeesed dea ttn Tage bed @itetene te, avaged
jveate Penal te thee coteane od pooguetee boned Caghvoatnanide
Vere ly Chit Bleceve tei tied an Meth, eotietageul
MOYO Oy OT

Wie Phew Ebberon Pena’ matt that on erred
weertoenet, deeeseneabh Blasseloy , ty bens Serna cy alivaes GUE alge
Mate PEP Veet cd apse, Done divterty eft dee Hint diy,
Vso c one SHO, adennee peegtnipitintead, fave Leone tend
Wibpoees Phe tht Chalet Meaaengen, of
Wit treet aa Phat he Pte Chnnreentaaal
CEE pbon atone EMogeveds tee Etvevebuvtode, Mdonion bette oe Mrdaet
ef epee dhegetal clellvia, dealt hy me cenbeonsel pagan
taeedl Pia BL Wabi ated et th tes
AL WlHnia, foie probe ed dhe elieel, af
TEER COM Se RCCL OS PL
Tn MLO SMTLITN OMT CLM TCR ROM MTEC LCM PEO)
tHe He Honea hana mnie Wedron ae atrial
cay Peeve ge vtetent, sane tela oe teta He Ce evened
Tar tee os bat EE da etal, win A de
pdbeedayiate cane ebeed aad abegede Men Elie danwect od dhe
tHateeds welpeees Hee Havent tas werpadedge, aad ter Cet
When divteed foot thee aseqapenn teat Hie ipapiel UN Hie estnges
UMA ee Oo eC 0
le Adsd vad thee Treete HL rented Chet thie tiayeree alive
Jame ol Hew jie Bppeerebond abet HE fee abet pylyorse
Hebrew lie aunt pal tahooare ad hirveuitl

leads

el
veda

Cuntil he next Friday burying the dead,

[Frosn the Reading (Pa.) Journal.)

A OONTRABAND'S STORY,

A regular Virginian plantation slave passed
through here last week on his way to New York,
in search of his wife. They escaped about the
same time, but missed eachother. He fell in with
Gen. Banks’ Division, and his wife and children he
thinks crossed the river near Washington, He sup-
poses that they are now in New York, It scems
that he fell in with some soldiers who were mem-
bers of H. Ward Beecher’s church, and they pave
tiin a document for himself, and one for his wife.
We give his story pretty much as he told it, except
the plantation dhilect +

My name is John Parker, [ was born in King and
Queen’s county Virginia, [ do not know my axe.
My master’s name was Benjamin Wilson ; he fail-
ed in business, and when he broke up they seized
130 negrocs—of which [was one—and sold them
at the auction market in Richmond. [ was bought
by Thomas Griggs, a Colonel in the Rebel army
for $1,000. My new master brought me with a
number of other slaves he had purchased, to his
plantation in Jefferson county, and set me to work.
[imarsied a wile, after leaving iny first master, who
belonged to a plantation five miles away froin
ours. [staid with my new master until the war
broke out, then he and his sons went away to the
war, leaving an overseer to manage us. In two
wecks our overseer also went to the war. We had
good times then, and eat up everything we could
get. Not long after, our mistress and her two
dauchters packed up and went off. Our master had
told us to stay at the plantation until he came back,
and that if any d—d Yankees showed themselves
in his absence, to shoot them. Our master had also
before this sent us to Winchester and Fredericks-
bury to work upon the batteries and assist at the
trenches. When the officers discharged us were-
turned to the plantation, where we remained until
the seat of government was removed from Mont-
somery to Richmond. A report was then spread
that the whole of Richmond was to be fortified,
and that all the negroes would be wanted to help.
Ten of us then went to Richmond and worked fora
considerable length of time upon batteries and
breastworks on James River. When they were
done with us we returned tothe farm ard found
our overseer at home. We,werked on smoothly
until the excitenient about the expected baule at
Ball Ran arose. They said that all the colored
people must then come and fight. [arrived at the
Junction two days before the action commenced.
They immediately placed me in one of the batter-
ies. There were four colored men in our battery,
I don’t know how many there were in the others.
We opened fire about ten o’clock on the morning
of Sunday the 2lst; couldn’t see the Yankees at all
and only fired at random. Sometimes they were
concealed in the woods and then we snessed our
aim. There was very heavy firing all around me,
bue Dean’t tel the number of ther suns. The
most of the guns were of the kind they call) mor-
tars. My work was to hand the balls and swab
out the cannon; in this we took turns. The officers
aimed this gan 3 we fired grape shot. The balls
trom the Yankee vuns fell thick all around. In
one battery a shell burst and killed twenty, the
restran. Thank the Lord! none were killed in our
battery. Pfelt bad all the time, and thonght eve-
ry minnte my tine would come; T fete so excited
that T hardly knew what [owas about, and fete
worse than dead. We wished in owe hearts that
the Yankees would whip, and we would have ran
over to their side but our atticers would have shot
us if we had made the attempt. Ustant at my place
dl the arder came for all to retreat, then every one
ran thinking thar the Yankees were close upon
their heels. U followed the retreat a eood piece,
bur as soon as our officers found ont that the Yan-
kees were also runing as fast as we were, then or-
dered a halt, and the Black Horse Cavairy (which
lost agrent miumber in che fight.) stopped all the
fuyitives and tirned in pursuit of the United States
troops, but the general was a litde “skicish” about
following him, and they didn’t care to press forward
upon them very sharply. “Phere were but two reg:
iments of colored men in che Ball Run tight that Tt
saw, One was free uegrees the other slaves, Our
masters tried all they could to make us fight. They
promised to give us our freedom and: money be-
sides, but nane of us believed them, we only fought
beeattse we had to.

Tstnid about: here for two

weeks, We worked
We did
not bury the Yankees and our men in the same
hole, wo generally dua long hole § or 9 teet deep
nnd threw na hundred in eae pit, We couldn't
make any kind of coffins for) them, We stripped
the Yankees of all cheir clothes and vatiabtes, but
buried ony men without Giking anything off them,
the Yankees had the best clothes, The Colonel of
ou Regiment toll ous to brine all tho money,
watches, &e,, to hin,

We fonnd agvent number of wounded, and the
first thing they asked for was water! water!” bat
we liad none to give them. Some ot che wornded
we put ontol their misery by bayoneting them,
They would ery out and bes for their lives bur we

dhl’ tdare to spare then. Fhigs of trace come
Adve Mee went an . 7s .

,
vere coe OE The dead uc ghey wont not give
themup. "Phe Yankees camo many dimes ater
some Colonel of theivs wha lad al brother in the
CLS. Government, bat they as many times rolsed
fo low his body to bo given upp Oley took tim
off bre tadlaa’e kaow wii chev aid with bier,

We were afiablof another attiieh fone Yan:
lees, and: prepaid ourselves as well as we could
tomeot them agai, bac ches dhlatt come. Then
left by Teave af ony offlvers, WEE six of my mastor's
en te geboaw. One od hese had bee wounded
Dyashell, and he died aner saderiuye very much,
Many cotored) people were killed in the aeton,
When we pot hack we fomml all ie eatte and
Tiles gene, abd cov alt yen up with weeds,
Dotwe diin'teare for chat all we wanted was a
chines to esenpe. “Phen were officers prowling
rom Che nedghortoedt diesearel ot all the nes
Brees, bat we nodged rota se samartly, (ey didn't
catehda Phe first ebing Chat fdid on uy nein
Wiveta se iny Wiles sli Tved Mya iniles away. 1
anevouded tn thibbag: hers die wae very ata hat
Plrto’t Deer billed s osteo asked: ome how Che dike
went, Pot hereur qyastendiad boat the peapte
fone Che Pee eonniey, she wa very werey to hear
thet the Vavtedet nan. TP atayedt dit aa with Qom
Sateeleay ogling Meontiy merndiag, ane eho
rete tooney madera Pwane atid to ostay douse
fy Che nohtherhont for fear ot the odes, so |
fet nnd cae nenier fhe Viertean ties ob dona
the US sotdlora ae Westby, whe pave mie tive
papery one for aemael lind ane fae ny wifes they
waked me whole deol sot ue whe, badd
wok try, fb thamt weit bark, aml dating her, t
rave her the paper int fold tr dhe ded tes te
retall, Etaht her to eee to ate Ctidia edt ant
adcetetendee Cbrave avened Ewald tacet tien Gare board
cont Hey wwanstely Te nttewy ie ta qaeer oer Chere, se
Ui seuh aiethion plan taped oe wil ewer, Baie to
meet her ba cane nl Gary hee wens, batt
witout tee domed, and to ttetah ste aie dave
none fee heh apt sbeer  Wahen bbad pien bee
Wp FE owend avtentis ape thos abe aee anne casas ap wtih
one or (be pbehene te Gin Thad db dalea, aa
Brediateh, ABE fia atabl, tae ghow wolvanidt
Hove quand otucountetel Caen vote P eecemnay cone telat lane
Ueber Ph Sannnnes a athe gelebeits wert gat hharsebaeh,
(hey pet nea nt to bottie cated pleney tent,
ied teentect sere weeth Uy weveteed ve te etiy anil
peer adeowae Cooter ViGnartentin evened teeth elven aot avbeaned
whore (he battnies were, bot bowen atahl te try
Oderet cesneeeee ye ceeiedty, avteed eevdel chit Cowan tevapniad ting

Weer Neooebe, Etecdel atresney atl EP teseavey evlecnget ter pane
there co eboes ont toare creas, cubteoag Chie: greeny stor nett ons
TONE A EOL TL CC

ONO MALAI RLA MORIN LOO) COCO CC
poebeeh thew antl te New Dork al tabt an
(hat te woabt ace boone ait nthe allatghe dhe
sob Ute Uee ented eave asd teed tere etna tint, Doovakea th andet ot
AUrer Saretaractoonetatr Gor Mines foveal, nul Vounly wathot
ib adsedae. | Decerns Gor Ceeteatinte de week, nent t
Heel when tae thas fee fore, Clad Powe do

Wheto ceeetey dele a tte ated Meat atta
Wore, eet dee abl Perec desebe Lpeeateet ttre
sesuEpblae  onpeed deena Chane st bead sone COEDS eesvenves tee efaan adele
set Pheee drecenenetedee caned Ciesee Cla bel tea PE weaegebt hay tn
Weer cere Bre etary tbepnay ocean welled aybaedyt, eens
Wheres Co vverabel aneet peopel at able, mel what
rosunel Tesgsn cevenetane Ee Pousnngeset cence cde dione ot andes
tho Wetda GB taal a beige on pussedabena wholly dyed
Hote the eeddbra, aod eat amb Gate nei
Heoegen trerpes tee Neves Vases weloesned blncnpey tea tneeten aie
WEDS, alee deena taven pede tora tile Tong cen od tie fe
footie nea tetoter, ated the other, whe be Ub vents
vet OP rMsaeh vere dehy tee Deeedatvtn My atts
bene Povpegeecdann: Goo teat decane Navan Veen de Gon renneediy
6 wam }

Voventeenben angered toe vena: Cnetonst oot Aen a bay Se

alveettint, Goby ite vs sannt Voy teeeeveee Tobe nave

Vn Peart dea a thelr tin eertpea, Clee obey portinliest,
eel CNet trey cave fers ed ape Cte pereegag ok tb
Ween dee atte eee, etapa

Poe theaters, Cee ee eee 2 TEU enth pyetd aneiet

Teun wan hat pao Sern!

“Vlas TUIYRTLMMR RRL MMR CL TLY CO 1 ORL LS
UL

TAN Te ITE tte fe tt ateg ayy!

Wibeb tye Maddy anes Coteetatyeag bree
Hot beta popeen Pes wend neni anmendbly da
Time MTR EAN] Oe UCL VC
Vet Ney te ater nee id hel aged die
refered fee qaee neal eth Chee cbeateed tienen
Weta ninebe

AME RORIOLO MOORE CRC LSC Me]
toeetey Te Cbd TEN, Mae bee seve atta seen Heed prongarvene tage
ay Fue n ee Tesebose ceed chun cngentonenty gee 78 Mean ban ak pesaead
rel aeted pub treaspie cenit

MONE Mee Ee tsage otto ev edenttion tee inte Detale goa
and, Stat eee peed we rina lh ie ee TO Nad
Wee Tih vara wages veel Pn UE Dawe ble at
Val sfersvae dtu it Wet ete ced alee (tela
de!

The Seow Heellag) Mteteay riba che dothen
Cony cesar eattay OAV Ey reg Thee Phen Cbroep abe thea
tHe Hyrnscetatal Celestial tales i} Novatne thin \val
WNetnie be TE ate dae edie Aap teta eonmeapes, ceneel eli
FT) ORK R CREEL MER EKO ROLL

ACUIIHIET Tet yt atanre ee Mata tage DO ae
TOTES OMIM DOLCE RLM CT MO
WHINE Voobtn ten Datace PHPesegntltn, Calg "abner Ted taea, we Ceding
AUT aTHEAVEG FONE Cat! eed dube FOTN Themed tan aa dtesend 2!

vygetleed dias faay
Veep Pad tan

Wty be ottel: ob egal (the wager fisted fhe

verttomee EDee cngernes voote Ul be Ue i Toes ueatare Te gyennea

A LOT OF CHIPS,
The Bewitched Tarrier.

BY THE ARXANSAW NIGHTINGALE.

8am Johnson was a cullud man,
Who lived down by the sca;

He owned # rat tan tarricr
That stood "bout one foot three;

And the way that creature chawed up rats
Was gorjuss for to see.

One day this dorg was slumberin’
Behind the kitchen stove,

When suddenly a wicked flea—
A ugly Jittle cove—

Commenced upon his faithful back
With many jumps <o rove.

Then up arose that tarrier,
With frenzy in his eye,
And waitin’ only Jong enough
To make a touchin’ cry,
Commenced to twist himself around
Most wonderfully spry.

But all in vain; his shape was sich—
So awful short and far—~

That though he double up hisself,
And strained hisself at thut,

His mouth was half an inch away
From where the varmint sat.

The dorg set up an awful yow!
And twisted like an cel,

Emitting cries of misery
At ev’rs nip he’d feel,

And tumblin’ down and jumpin’ ap
And turnin’ like a wheel.

But still that most owdacious flea
Kept up a constant chaw

Just where he couldn't be scratched out
By any reach of paw,

And always half an inch bervond
His wictim’s snappin’ jaw.

Sam Johnson heard the noise, and came
To save his animile;

But when he sce the critter spin—
A barkin’ all the while—

He dreaded hideriforbia,
And then began io rile.

“The pup is mad enough,” says he,
And tuggin’ in his axe,

He gev the rechid tarrier
A pair of awful cracks,

Thar stretcht him out upon the floor,
As dead as carpet-tacks.

MORAL.
Take warnin’ by this tarrier,
Now tumed to sassidge-ineat:
And when misfortin’s flea shall come
Upon your back to eat,
Beware, or you may die because
You can’t make both ends meet.

Haryes’ Rerty to tue Scorrers.—Of Mr.
Haynes, the colored preacher, itis) said, that some
time atter the publication of his sermon on the
tens, “Ye shall not surely die,” two mekless younz

men having agreed together to try his wit, one of |
“Father Haynes, bave vou heard the;

them said
ood new: “No,” said Mr. Haynes “what is
ic?” “he is great news indeed,” said the other,
“and if true your business is done.” “What is it?”
again inqnired Mr. Haynes. “Why,” said) the
tirst, “the devil is dead.’ Ina moment the ofd
gentleman replied, lifting up both hands, and
placing them on the heads of the young men, and
said ina tone of solemn coneem, “Oh, voor fath-
erless children! what will become of you?”

—Biddy Mutrooney found a mntherin’ thare o°
the worrolkd jn the hinroosr and traced him under

GEFFRARD INDUSTRIAL. REGIMENT,
CIRCULAR OF JOGEPH .C. BUPSTILL.

It has been d Hanaisntee, Pu, Feb. 1,12,
ee

of the Geffrard Coffee tomes fer ‘the perpose of

removing the impresefon that i¢-was a stock com-

pany, or that , . i

Spring.
tude of action must ever

ts of your or-
i Q and perform
the duties of their ‘present positions, your Sead-
ers acting as your special representatives, and
bein all respects as you were before connecting
yourselves with the regiment, ezceptin name. All
individuals will become members of Company A.

All associations will be deste alphabetically,
according to the dase of their enrollment; for e@-

ample—
Co. A, Capt. 0. C. Haghs, Harrisbarg, Pa.

Be He atom, emiegen, Be
, mm. LJ . vi
“ D, “ Wa. McCown, T: ne .
“ E, “ Wm. E. Walker, Trenton, N. J.
“ F, “ Wm. J. Scorn, Boxton, C. W.
“ G, “  Saron M. Bland, Troy, N. ¥.
“ H, “ B.S. Jones, Pitsberg, Pa.
“ 1, “ _J. Grayson, New Worcester, Wass.
“ J, “ Samael H. Holtand, Cincinaati, 0.

?

After a fail
locatiuns presented, Port de Paix; believed to be
the besi, has been selected as the destination of the
Regiment; it is situated on the norshwestern coast,
is an open seaport, having a harhor, numer-
ous landing places along the coast, is within 2 short
distance by land, of Port Marzo and Cape Hartian,
with easy and expeditions communication by wa-
ter with Si. Mark, Port-au-Prince, Miragpaze,
Aquin, and all other Maces along the wast. is
the nearest seaport to New York or Boston, posces-
sing the shoriest ronie io either of these cites, and
having the advantaye of the quickest passage, will
greatly facilitate social and commertial inter-
course, the sale and shipmen: of all kinds of
prodace, especiaily frnit, and the importacioa
of soods, stock, and machinery, at cbearer rates,
and with lower far. 3
and St. Mark, the mos: healthy. acreeabie,
and salubrions climate in the whole Isand.
The surrounding plain is exeeedingiy rit.
varied, and fertily, producing in abendance amd of
the finest quality, every vecetabty, fraiz. ard dow-
erot the tropics. while the neighborice bills and
Mouziagins teem with rare plants for pertamezy and
i medicine, rarer Woods for rarniture, manalactures,
building, and omaments, with inexhagstitve scores
of the richest minerals and metals. The Depart-
ment of the Northwest & thinly peopled aad many
of the lance land proprietors desire tw came wo
terms of any hind with emigrants, Lance xs of
ground can be obtained upon werr favoratie eo
ditions. Twelve thousand acres are cow in the
market. Paix, with all these important advance
ges, presents inducements to enigragts and for ea
imation from the Middke, Eastern acd Weseera,
States, and the Canadas, superior ro these preseni-
el by any other portion of the ishnd.

The Resiment wil! sul from New York oc Paiie-
defbhia for Port de Paix, as soon as the ommacine

the woad pile. “Now, Mulrooney,” says Biddy,
“you be alther stirrin’ out the baste wid a dit of
stick, while F howhl the mealbag forninst the
hole.” “Ah, be the powers, an’ [ve got him!
Now Michael, yu be anther havin’ the bag over yer
shoulder, and it's mesilf that) lather the divil’s
own daylight out av Jim. Take that, ye infernal
tate £ Tes Mistress Mulroones hersel? that li be
givin’ ye hl? oSpluc! whew! ach, Jases! an’
Michael Mulvwwoney, what have ve in the har?
The breath ao” the baste

body; ics meselt chavs kiltintirely, Qeh, Mehael, /

honey, and ye be anther holdin med) Um raind’,
Mulroney! . Wi .
divil’s own child is it, aw he's behavin’ ondacent!

How Un Sranrven ‘Trea. preacher whese |

heavens were in the habit of suing to sleep over his
preaching, boughta dn vhiste, and on Sunday,

when he saws guodly number under the suns |

nolescent Induence, he drow forth las whistle and
sounded a shviek. Ua ans instant the whole con:
ermgation was awl >
atthe minister, ate anuther,
what inthe rane ce woes

ce aay ces AAP UNF prhe ce nee oe
cb specimens af bus! Ontese tran Had ativital and oatalbgors eat wie

manity, aint vou?’ said the Uvine whistler, as he | 8PRaNk &e.
: , , whistler, ts Ne | A Ney sie goals moteur Bin wil mshAetecty Eek

ay

WON, Eady av set

assembly, “When f prowel
you all go fo sleeps but

vest,

Houblodteatiing wavteh, The luder reptiad as fob
Towa: SH will not quke notion of personal lane
nuage hem, we will settle that by-andty, omtside,
Vill lisetiss haw, chop fogies ot spht hairs with
you by Court, thats all CU vou will split hairs,
split chic,” said the opposing huvyer, pulls outa
bair thom his heat and lading in towants the
speaker, hb eat do dt edhe oie to split
bristles Was the wply.  Rvervbody in nee
Tangtiod oud load, af eattse,

vee

Why dae vou da ig ee Reeauses wytted the
eutor fail ie Mitty days, and Ewart ta seo it: it
cae be dane da dfeen, Lam guing to sit up atl
whe and doa woe”

Comimrsersip Me
fa Oia copartiership
Horton Comers

A Yankee ita Prenetinant owned apis in
coparoeisbip. When Kalan tine eae thes
Wished te divide Che teats the Vaukeos was vere
anasto fodivddlo se that lie could set bert hand

We extnvet the dottow.
(isaction,

Wy Tlivale Was Go ent dit were ae beh,
Brevehai aed te it, ei combitivn att die
Vaukeo wont tion tis back, aint take the ehotos
Of pieces ater i nascent tn twa Phe Varker
fared bie baek aeecontinety,

Bivnetinan  Vbeto wall ven tay, so pice cid en
tavil aia, acee peteee edetenit ca dad one

Yankee SO vfeee ww CO tthe tall one”

Prvoebnnin en, by pert vou ean dake tii,
mil Uther oe aeet ane

Viper taetisy tenis the Varkeo fom chat the
Precedent ene ot ie dada stuek itty dhe
ples month
VEU h uN Baeeerve Hee vb ae Ete arian, |

Be eet oneed, New Doak. Betyg bse}

, Kivtavatton to tTlaythe Vrms
ite hy mene tae Deen eometidtedl byw liten

SC CAD eTTATEONES can Da Con w ated ay stall

’ ee eay apne, taovsutae paket, dal
wb the perbe et Thth ae the sate lates ae aie
sheave gtetel day evtta charted veehy

Nostaveateast veecet wall dl (har A Ques, wlitie
POV atime mi ber tide dor at Lior teny eet
Honrent we seen a week aiielvudy lange ds
Hanh he erbarlatlon,

NEW Valttty EUNEt

Nhe Panis NEVE Se ENS RE tonne Date
eho, Capable Etter, will aad) Qa Now Venk oa
(se Qsete eet Eetrnanae sy Ga de eee Pare led,
Tr Wl Det perigee ETT Be ir tee ay pote ehes
Wh eetoed She cette ae cesvaavestinie iene PP a Eat
whee pabetttens

Vhe base Droveittenay (ited), Capt Lantos,
AH porta ier a New Dork about die bah
AE Vetyaaiy did be uty te ether the Otte at
Visteyopnny Sette eth terete art Ctaagey Ue OE EMey tangeng
tse ttre tan pond end (tee Tebaaned, welvoter as aeqgteuend
Cer Ure tataneday

Vee deercei Gaaner Gh ecai Capt tekst,
WHE petty cutee bert ate tated Mav dy aid
PYM CUT MLD CULTURE LNT OOD 1)

Phe Tees Vee Ctra) Chapt Oaths,
will yarn cient bane che Evel ad Manly ata
mash Adin teh
AV et rbiarses vacant bet paceaeeneeee be TERT rye Aly
vhhyeaia
Ure HE ntl ae PNeee rte Pee te Mba erdoee,
aacemibreania pevesehy

VU UE EDTEEN TINE
Vite (haves Petaqetoe Veta Uae ete datian wal
ab ben Btdbitelpteta, am ate Min er Date y
THT he peeiiatieely Ae Cr pete rates AS pee
wera Ei ee pee thy anki WALL te absent
the mbtdte od Apt
Went Pinta

Vie aston De an bey @oape When, IQ Wu
Verret, RE eth Qrenge Cheeent, Med 8A) (en hae
Pernt Unevecun tree, abe Pus acne eke atetnengutatednane
(eve etrdnenita
AT RUUM AE CUIULEUIROT CM Mae COREY CR Me OLE OT
ACT Mahone atively Gueteagitte pa rhe anes:
weteetorthy Levene clecartineda dinate re ati Agyenae ot tle
TONE MLC LCU ITLL CULES ro
wails vaterpnseennedend tor melee Aaprbin, Cage Ha
Wavevet UC hneeea, Meteo, (trbee oa TNA
Vvtonees Tarot, at ullat whtel lawn antpht ate
UNUM COMOT MOU UUM LOOM LTO EST ROS MESON BLN
NNO OUE MLM Lc}

AVIMUUSIITMLOCUIL OTM MTL UM MTOM LIU ION
ti vwunnen tw pereatle Helen, wana ow ta

wit, Tee sbvmnaga Roedyaaths etna Apel, Fay ot
Vasa ecanne and faniuantton Nat Vouk ay des aan
vere Le Teaco ty Manele eaten Natit \ivtartel
Phtei on, Heth tee i Oimmlas (a bean N Way,
Ht ple Wasetea ay Tne Tete, \ nator, OF WE, ta
ICU COLT Cc SLO LLC GOT \n CUNO MLL)

wolves Weer yen MUae taney,
bearer aperiitiens Meeredat g

is drivin’ the lite onto me!

Onto’ che meal bag wid him! che:

{

ee ee ee ee
"| NRW YORK ADVERTISEMENTS.

{

t

slowly gazed around on ts highly astonished | Sea
the evspel to vou |
; womoment lo yoo ty}
Playitas the devil youn all: wide awake, up and a
coming, Uke a rush of hornets with a pole in their |

~—Two Obie lawyers got dite a warm dispate |
in Court, when ove called the othera provarionting

Beton, tls very wanes to swear as van de, ‘

pebsoner, “Eve understood that aman May swear!

from dhe!

qarters cand persiaded: (hee Pretetumtan dhe ite
Rho;

tion is mady to move, and the General Avent Bas

| pledgwd himself two provide the very bess acnomae
i dations for i . ; |

j . Two hundoad aliodalial mvruiss art WARNE NE
* Company A. Sixteen acres of land wit be scan
!antead to every marrkd man, and six acres 89 ere
ry single man, Persons or associntinas deiress af
shemselygs with the Rechaent wil
Ay eye

P amnecding
“lease addins inimedianty, saanag
tion, nutyr, &e.. Se,
Jossre CL Beerius,
Rox Yo D5 P.O, Hardsberg, Bs.

MENT AND SHRED WANKHOUSE, 53 CURTEANDT
[| STRENT, NRW YORK. —Piowneds, Rows, Barcus, Saates,
Showis, Neha Choe bars, Gildivaas: Grain, Fleas, and

Mes © WERWODS AGRICULIC NAL UNELE-
A

! cage Mille: Chaing: Bales, bore, wale, and de powees:
} Vitehtaky: Sows: (x Vokec ard Bows: Ratchets: Haar
| mers; Shop aus; Chow Shetter: Hadise: Sy aka
and Cradys.

Ales—chanter ard Vegetatie Sands og alt Ride

Sisal senunee

MAPS £ LOCKM

~

A SWeS tO SKN Dt conketaats fe Barty

LAWS OF ENTGRATION.

| Law on Qe Meionitive RAY Qe Chaty Y¥
' Peosuns af dhe (Nar aad Dedag mace,
1 Pare Geers ann, Doshient af Waxti,
i. Ry the advitw af the Qoaneil af the Sooretaries af
, Staw and the Logistatine Biantiog, arter Davie Oe
+ sitewad and dovlanad the urgritey ad’ if,
| Ras widenat the (howe kaw
1 Awrten el Atter the prumudoanan ag the Pree
pent uy, five carmen of bated wal be crag thee
j ot all changy, tw ewry Gauily of Wares at cette
P Vators at dhe Anivan ar lidian raees whe shalt
tartive in the Rpt. This grant wit] Ye ahead
7 (W  carann when the board or eatttvatnt i aie
marital,
PARE TL Those grants will bo datiwank witht
epee, aid WICK PA bshotal GUN, to every Gab
Thy that stall haw made, Wwe the paper Washes
| Gates the dtovhnatian panera Dy ow wid the
p Vow of obbanings natiialisations amd aioy ill de
ANUEUTOAT Ft al grants ater a anda ot a&
Sane ad day Ar dhe ewuntey,
DAY TES The fast grates WAL NS gta de ae
charge Gy the poovisional gesuits ond when a sdalt
i Rare Der aseotaiat Gy the Gouenmment aang
. that eultivation Ras altwady enauitettand oat ee
PUT gral,
Ane IV. Tho grates atall net Rave power a
Palisyaee of tds grange Deeee the Ogninatro ef seuat
SAM iti dane at Gocuaatian,  Newerthodies, de
WT be atte te attain che auiherigy or owedage
‘Wis grant fie anteater Weyer, bat only aa the
eundigiotis, titi, art Wr fhe Poweus atyve
+ Manat
{Tho pamone bye stall Be pramapety exon be
Phe Seviaary af Saute, ad che Tutatay, tated Agee
p wate,

j Haven at the Nathonal Howes af Harta td the
| TAN ae Separarber, yaad ST at Trdepeabternny
i Bre Pawcideat ay’ Qe See cBOD ert ak
I OPYe Sov daria, Cer keen ds VO Maayan
rete at dhe Chambon of Repracntatiies af Wwe.
foward at Sopianber, BRAY war A age
e  Lnlepondetions
Me Powravat gf Ae Oeadve:
W. CR ANLAYER
fo TA Seowdntat st, Tray BO Raetane,
is vie Nak or cae Reeeanie
The Preddent af Hay db ontaive at the daa:
PUrag Tan et the Pegedatatives Uhaddon Bo neat te
7 The ana ar tie Rpttag puttiahal ait oe sRtAt
| Riven at abe Natal Dahiow or Wire an Dats, he
1 date Saystotay PRA AL TUL at Unley hats
PW pie Pra es es ake Penh
1D Sevier ah Sie at Fle Dewaast wad of
pA tertectery Boalnc toannas
Lote we vee We ata fle Mare, PL Dee,
TOPAw Aseasecae fle Minna, Seed ga Say gh eke
then ENS, He LAMTR
i PA See Ge Shed) et TR, AAR FOE Date
| TAR Mat at Sin ge ot aaa Cleat, ated
1 Madera tae, Hh. UV waancn,

Hi
}

Ml.
Vatiaittudo at SQ ge fe
(aes Wad bss AM,
i Pv GREER

UAH epATE OE The Seuetany Ot Neate ad Meathyy,
AE Fe rte aly boat he Cte OE Ee Sevatanies
STINT
1 matter, ANAL pmpe actly Be dena tat O4
(ete oe Choe ate prada Che HAQiad qitaliftos
1 Uhten tay Desennttne Vay Liat, A tater a ota chet

warty (HE Gente tie Qe {unianttate HAY eet
| et ake vated artantunt (oe naniallention,

Po UNwyteaa (he tallow ti. aN
Po Averett Avebete U8 dhe Ot vey bat
>it alia AT Awae whe Wy ed et (he
PUN INR AEN ai Athy arent vats at Haval
wy ele dannna, AL, Nuviing Uo these anont at tbel
AH Heat ta Ute eeiitiy, Eee the Miata a the
Ur ad dete aditlions atid A paveetat at (ne
well Rare ete dewti, te a deed tatti tye tthe etn
(a ew ene AE Ae (deer eiene et ettliigs Ga dhe
Roparitis, Pho dt, at Ae eae dive, tlw (he
Madi? dhe Wace, Take alte (had thay titties
VOT Ye tee ete ate HLA,

Ae TE dtodd le tle wutat wee wt
Whe ath at he Paaeas rete dh te \ wy
Uren ay Chay Caine tt ithe AW ts Ryputtig, and
Ait Gta at the tack, Chay: el wre whew:
INCREAS S RCM LORNA UO LROMLO RUT
vantvas ate Wee a CA UE et ut tw tad ieceatelial
tan viligets AYR NY LOLOL

Ae TE Pheqaacnt tiny Arig Atl tan Wiad
vere ve Titel aie catty 8 4h WAL teat be avec uted

ANLRUIETIOU IG MANE Lt Renny wf dias \ "ne
\\
‘,

Pedant wy fe

Vive a tte Natuonal Wane \ Nitan. Nal
TUTE TAN ae AAS WG AAD
paridenen” “www Ua t

THA Catt Ge adage ae Heat eth
rh Aha pee teen tai Wis wt wav awe |
nel Jwosert Hest Bath baa wober a
ee ALANA

oe ry thal

cd ky

Oe LR Te

ciitary tice garetts

wigs

INVITATION.

Hayti will soon regain her ancient splendor. This !
marvellous soil that our fathers, blessed dy God, |
conquered for us, will soon yield to us the wealth ;
new hadden in its bosom. Let our black and yel- !
Jow brethren, scattered through the Antilles, and |
North and South America, hasten to codperate |
with us in restoring the elory of the Republic. ;
Havsti is the common countrr of the black race.
Tal to announce in the Constitution tha: they pub-
ished, that all the descendants of Africans. and of
the inhabitants of the West Indies, belong by right
to the Haytian family, The idea was grand and :
generous.

Listen, then, all ye negroes and mulattos who, in
vest Continent of America, suffer from tho
prejndices of caste. The Republic calls vou; she :
invites you to bring to her your arms ard vour'
inds, The retencrating work that she undertakes |
interests all colored people and their descendanis, |
mo roster wha: their origin or where their place of ;
birth. :

Hzyu, regaining her former position, reiaking
her ancient scepere as Queen of the Antilles, will
te a formal denial, most eloquent and pererrpiory,
acainst these detractors of our race who contest
i i¥ to attain a high destee of

cur issire and e
Gviszaiion GEFFRARD.

HISTORY
THE REVOLUTIONS
BY M.

corn
as

OF

OF WAYTI

Book Fourth—o

Titasated erp maali fs

i
Ti

vine
i

carmed them,

17 OM rer

anil

them under its protection, ahd liberated seme who
had been imprisoned by the officers, Count Pein-
ier could noi, withour danger to himself and party,
any longer tolerate such Tighhanded measures;
moreever this Violation of military discipline was
one of the motives of the extreme step he bad tak-

enon the 2uh duly.
In the evening the Committee of the West cated
2, Where it was resolved) fo oppose

MENA The
toree With force; the guard of the Committee were
quadrupled: its partizans in large numbers, assem.
bled and armed themselves for its defence; die civic
henard dew to arms and stationad themselves with

egwe small field pieces before the Comunitiee’s place

l afimeeting: the Committee declared its siding per-

manent. On thar same tight, the 29th and 30rh
alaree patrel of Red Tatts and civie guards
smaller patrol of soldiers belonging to

ment of Port-au-Prince, arrested and dis-

Apprised of the ontrage to his: soldiers, Colonel
de Mandnit, after making himself sare of the arse:
nal, chose one hundred picked men from the chas-
senrs of his regiment, and the White Tufts, and

3 at th

¢ head towanls the place of meeting of

dashes
the Cor

On his

teee of the West.
alo he found himself opposed by an
ssedof Red Tatts and the civie

iv

een

am

ard,

He summoned the Assemblage to disperse,
the name of the nation, the law, and the King.

itis voice was drowned with clamers, and the
crowd refused to disperse. At this Juneture, Cap-
tain Bordelier, from one of the districts of Port-au-
Prince, a fiery partizan of the Assembly of Saint
Mark, ane? one of ihe principal agitators, turning
to his men, exclaimed: “Fire! ss.
sof Cofonel Mauduit’s detachment were
2 yy the discharze which instantly follow-

pro v nly rolloy
edihis commar The chasseursand White Turts,
ad immediately, sword in hand

the Comminee, who ed on

nd,

rt

Ww
. Thirty of the mub were arrested, togeth-
a member of the Commitee, Who happened
Colonel Mau-iuit entered the
1 found it vacant; the men:
Yaving withdrawn to the

er
* alneng them.

CPO.

Con

2 Commiltice
De Manduit ordered the stand-
» snare to be taken from the hall,
Ali the prisoners, be-

is quaners.
iporiance, Were sett liberty the
Her and three other citizens lav.
; wounded, The
of the Assembly of Saint Mark, sume
tandareds of the civic

snd some othe

,pretende | that the
pd were trailed in the dust, without requ ty
Jc is evident that but for the

national colors.
tee leration of Colonel Mauduit, the collision would
no omore bloody; he desired to make his
Thus was
Upon the

car entirely inthe wrong.
of the West dissolved.
ray, @ COULD Of war was insticuted,
inet the refractory soldiers of
Borel, who had invei-
smal Guard,

i, Opler to avoid prosecution. From

first of those proscriptons, $0

this unfortunate Colony.
ne of the Asremubly of Saint: Mark
ere Hearing andl compelled to

‘ ‘She stragule

nee,

Nat 9
weprince, but the Colonial Assem-

Port-d

nt Saint Mask fuitn

ving its deerecs,

forenting disturbances
Arthe very the when the adherents of the A ~
eat Saint Mark were Cefeated in the city of
: alike suc-

ch, sinee the ate

ib North, ¥
we by the Commissioners of
Marl, had nacrowly watched
wetinbly with the suunicipal
ine Jearmedt that the

vith the dep
me the prohibi

of the Cape, bh

ae

: continued to Corres, 7,
“of Saint Mark, notwiths

‘ one Jat, demanded

7 re et te by (he aaatriets
[the discotion Gf We eye ES " (he aa. ta
rlwhe propane ie “ithout ditfentty. ; Fre-
yp monderie, President a Aseembly of the North,

segicle, t
bot Satan

ofthe?
a L

a OOF oe ihe
the

PO) t
Obstet bas

“Yon hace taht

st poate BAG LS 2h,
Spl PMAEE uf Heda, EXON OG EO RTE tah pis ef

t Vee tee et rote et bee
Uh OL LG Nataly ROD ES Depiler

fort tele OE DG Me

hi MCAT Ve i Lttaaytst beet ah Panes: ties H

vee ” 1
i, i

Sa Di ann “ith at dav iae Anvintiy of

whe bal had the thy

for ite

reve nee OL4
Teeny

pad doen sy

: contention with Chat

jtof the vote

municipality, went himecH ta net ,
on, On Whe lth of July, three
‘This proceeding iL
wn

ey eolut

Sa nfter it. jiatallation,

Ihe want Of resprel eubed tiny br
authorities, and the intenne. feeling of
Hine an the hearts of the priveipal per
ab that pita hh, wolaithstand ine the cduen
He mest of them had recived, ‘The
eoyjelded, uuder protest, tothe wilhof

ghia fhe

tion whiel

She Aneably of Saint Mark ae
adopliree: the motion
that thereafter at
wath the nuunielpality nied

the North s assectiny

neritely Of

rand only

oF corti one
ae COMA sing of the puwuns eneoetial copunitiets. ‘Phi: wie nypagn ton
PATE a ete ie ALLEY ot nant atten gts piste: fur the special eousion whe fraud the cle
he EM MO Bait ad) tine Bye lege ty tye inuniapabity found it darolved, AT
aie Gece in eer tate ten the HEA PL fate,
pete Meee ' Phe ecranbly of the Neath pe atiened: the Citey
Vrcat be Crt tier patent tan ae in verge: Gonerad ia recdimed bie proclorntien conlirte
‘ hol Sark tit to ote
Se. GE IGIhe parpies UE erin, abta tang, jie the Acormbiy af Bain Miark $roforeed itr of

BEE Onin

fee nce tee, anes Git Une

ee yah ne nyt tet bat corer oedul ned
Keyegyee 4 fone grins ~ ant +
te tft Magento lt he aobercats of the \
if POLE ata! Ws fetta’ oft, wefan, i

othe dug, tan Aeneite dy deereess

sree Sreeus tb the ie, aad Che ts

i nigel ’ fate ’
yur Ltd Crane Ptabe les per, i
vaelt yep ee eee Ob wife the

OL NECE OTE

wary pings ta uf Crore Penne |

i
fepert ani nthe t
{
i

pon Oe yee Suet PP nacre

ya! Heint Wares the deanty Bored taabed the

entaobihereyiuine te of

tan te Said gd Vie edie

Serie ati Seen an paid ob taial Mare aed,
i

ree aie ba Golan aj te |
Catteni Gieads bites sitipet niet,

Yet Cnet Waaecioun, ned the effiecrs
Re att be Whe eft Wy bee cies ithe tae 4.
nee BY Partin Vale the
ahha}

Ww
sot

cere, Ste petty

cen ah fie Maes

Vay: weetape cent hat

atone ating gt aid ie tbe cued ba atl
A hdd, bedi, tte Ne po thasbpi dalle pe
Cal te Miet he positing eould perinit Tae fF
Gee, bt Mate tee Petes We Wid in fader cagetle
perl pie Atel Waar bead! We bee in

Ob ROO ie Me celts ties eege st
eter We Nia Dad the petal, bevel beets paacch

ery Meee Mayet ait Wiese beastere  Dhe

pith pgte Of bit fas ce ith gs, Peer ie patsagite te oF tee
Deere POPPED ate, Meth Meotabedde ca ite Cog peteci teeta Wry Tie |

White Datta fol teteteef we sed full, they tree

trand aoa oobieal onl bs

ears

Chathaleoad

' ‘ . .
of Jtacain de dy Chevadlicnie,

Caf the dita banees

Chaetrabiy Gf Wie Marth, ba ve

fof the peta: ef the
. . Nar
toeeGen, from cahieh it eoueluded Chait aie aesei
tien,
bis diet et Teen sefarbed beet Leveled rasjerite.
Count Pen sereieed Hhese propositiate wath

hated not coroply valde Phe peequr ct,

toptadted a omete forcibfe method ab ter
‘Dhe eeatitions

the Aj

: P : ts “
pada tinee Chat Diaper tient bare ian

dae tit ace day the pee rate iyibis af Uy

biyet We berth te themilitany chicheat the Cape

He datter partod bet a bind of inated

Piven cinee

tae! had cnbaered between the Accenbby of the

ferth and Cointedert, Caloncbob the Bepiment of
the Cape, and cotamindint of that ery

Yhatdivcencien arose uted a phon an the
ay teed Gineet dav bicciatens
nb be Chape, ba cease bbe percen
at Cuagbefart, andes bln ou shige lees Phe
hove mtited, cndes
the daffeenee of the agithders od taat vie, epee ‘|
the enuce af Virgin de ta Che satlicnie.

Progeter ty Porminate Pile dizeenccn, a recon dtl

peed Cornbefaet aad bbe otic: wed

obiety wa ele

Sritted thot in that aifaie, (hey tial traded the

heros Oh He dterinent af the Cape, nbs for the de
fenee of teas Ceodeanel dhe
teefored nob it obyeecd the recatter ton

Vocesineial Accembly,

feo tetheenee,

Capoalbeicened  Anonth vac boken, Pe dive aed
hie fect befred fer the Clabpene, bee Pine: deve, wveveh ber tbe
Moar, wad tee renter rabaod a tisniee anepeeinned the

rasniee ad Wie Breath atta, dicdus here af path

tere fra aeebeented onedite Me ttt ob Med hin tranguitty tabs ety
Luft Shae Ue Asceduly eb dhe fou, eae ob ileal
Poe Copter abthe Ale Et ie culled, cpl feat Sheets the tel Satoh bhwek, bea heat, bey Cit os ol

ee the de age Gb danepnie Uet beet peel tate.

Ee Ed
at hee oblate Chere ld beg the cect ations med the
side eeieets Ub thee Seeatapes Wee atte the White Lathe
bap Paks

fate cto tna Va

wy hE th, 8G pat Oak

A seal fetes? Srinive Vite vt
ses gee Oped sate, Me Th Me Mabe Copies pete nee vite
tis init pat Wuriue

Mystere hawinddy at patel Mack and bee pos
tapet anew Mine foregone faa defeges, Cea Mein
it, hee nits ones ab adi there boteienee, ne bothe
beigecwt AE beslh Peo aa Legnite Vantin Veer ne pene genre ed bey fe
manne Uae auieneed dag free, Wind feos pect ab pore

Didyesas hace tearatanes, tet ape diate Vey wldta de babes tapegere
' ’ “

Bobcat Vegas Whe Fae thet og feaptec le Nn tactie ed tea tony
ihe Mee abfase
Va tee Sade deily bet cunaitae t

Oak, ae pred fete eter tine Ob bi beaded oo Wale

wo tijlidagy fea

ts COR) ee TT)
af Wie fe rt, ten the Acreindily wh Bain
Math wnt Ua wetee jl byte d see tide re, Nie wath

shy htss

Oh A Ninos, Orepatdin

“Vise gangs shiny, Bhees Cong ce pniran desea te petee beet
Saegte, te AM Me bee pee tpt hie atte pagal ob tt
Aandi ad fdad Mee ned eet ad the Conia
tea Ct hie Yisot, bend wornenee ed bbe ete cradles
“4 ree be thea
Cana Veserte y Dp dl A ssacadatene Al ti sie coal dee ye
enpineitl oh Vaas vg Soinee, ated ent ene GMeng:
My mbninian he dete iinet at Balad dae j
UV aL it ALL 1 eT Ohne, alecaul yp taped

Vay tn Mae fag pea bate,

eee ane

dep idetaeey Har fete red dbs eter ties, id

‘

Deeb ‘

| .
Te etbortee uae gn pte bees Finan hoe petagetebicn eed taeer dy

A thee bite pete, ated Cae veep pt lens tod Hees medlibay
Hi

vbr

fe be

HHH VOM TONSIL GOLOWy,

tuetieteb |

bead
Mea

i
‘
!
:
i
i
j

Perm ate Meepe gp Pee od
Pititere tip the (bre eased Viti pte ane

sfeges Pent dnele ee at Hae veverbeae ead yee seg

ele pupen, bey jinbegetecbrete Uh nee eel vedi wade cna ab
its Vb Pteneed oot Mace

Vestn cesdh patent gece tani geet Vea Vee cat tiny teed

ter tht Line ob coy

Forcrea Dhee Vanes tod tetpa cde pence beans
weebout fie the Opec deeed fail!
Habde, Peeve rate 20 Vbbebs thee ple tedbel fecige
Pane CE bidet, tee Meng dlbiate eget tie, coed
YR DT ed ee 0 nth, wth de
Plegedadecte pee deediny elected dere the
PPTL ae?) I) TE
thers ¢ re endaage Abe FD eenetetetet | eebled Glia. poten negroes
re Le) YS LO OR
tb Pe At dade ch dene eeeeaevecte peodevend ee tit eeetngren aal
Alene, oid ib van tevestea Deaths Unvaes tee ab ete Ceca ed
funiidny, Peco aos, Prcsgseed ver sen oad aight
C7 ee OT oY
Yat) ee CL 2)
Sunday, Decotites dat A beantal day A
ferred paidenie ate Head oon hel Hoe tlie Hevardege ee
Nhe pepe WILE N aE tea hebl
Montag, Paeniibee Ub Ther be ch i peread
Weab abate ete fgene Phere mete de vey desta de
| Paewtay, becetabiey Wb Pee nee din die vehi ie
[ reser bases | PP oe
J foresee der py ipa: ber tthe Beene lane mye

wae,

Wednesday, December -tth--The reughness of

the seais somewhat abated: the morning is very
Pleasant, and the passengers feel more at home,
The evening closes with a praver miceting,

Tharsd Deceatber oth--The weather sill cone
fines very pleasant, and most of the passengers ave
on deck enjoying the tine sea breeze-—some talking,
others singing the sones of Zion,

Friday, December Goh-- The sea is increasing in
roughness, but none are seasick, Mr. 1b. W.
Wood caught a fiving-lish this morning; it isa
great curiosity.

Satnnday, December Tih—The brig dane is run.
ning ina gale of wind under double rected top-
sails; very rough,

Sunday, December Sth—The ronzhness of the
sea has considerably abated. All are on deck en-
jeving the sea breeze. In the evening an excellent
meeting was held; and all felt: pretty: well. The
wea. her was much moderated.

Monday, December ¢th--Very calm. Are about
Rab miles otf Thavti, The weather is fine, and
whan on deck,

Fuesday, December 10th—The sun again rose
with splendor; all are again on deck enjoving che
sea breeze, expecting to make Thavti in two days

Wednesday, December Ulth—The fine sea bre
continues, and it is a delightful morn. Nations
Will be ready at halt past nine.

Thursday, Decenter f2th— Finds us off Tark’s
stand. i

The pilot boat came to the brig diane
marned by six swarthy black men,

Friday, December, 8th—Six o'clock A. M.—We
are in sight of the Black man's ‘New Jerusalem.”
My first impression is that the western extremity
is very rough and mountainers. One can only
perceive mountains and waters but coming nearer
the land the impression is reversed.

Saturday, December th—We bare beating
against the winds, trying to make St. Mark, and
finally made St. Mark Bay at 4 o'clock, P.M.
Again my heart is made glad by a sense of free.
dom; but Ethink the impulse -is deepened in- see-
ine the true independence of the colored man,
With what dignity do six colored men, of the
dark hue, board and pilot the vessel into port.
On arriving in St. Mark you can imagine better
than my pen ean describe the feelings of the emi-
erants on seine: twelve linnmdred colored Amevi-
tans anxigusly awaiting the arrival of the brig
Jane. Bur OQ, such disappointment when they
were informed that we would have td go to Portau-
Prince. Seon, however, our spirits were ¢en-
livened, and the morning of the 15th round us on
to the federal city of Hayti, We arrived
tau-Prince in the afternoon of the Lith.
We disembarked on the morning of the 18th, and
we are how very comfortably siuumed at the emi-
erauts’ house, in this place.

The Cotony which) sailed in the brig Jane has
consolidated itself into one Colony, and will locate
toncther. Lhave the honor of being their Mresi-
dent, and L. W. Wood Secretary.

On the morning of the 1th the royal mail
steamer caine in, bringing J.B. Williams and Jad
of Marysville, California. They have assoc
themselves with this Coluny, and I will say if Cali-
fornia wonld produce a few more of the sane
stamp Hayti would soon regain) her ancient
splendor,

The emigrants all scem ta be well pleased with
the country, and after they lave established them
selves, Todare sav that neither Jove or money
could persuade them to return,

Since Dhave been here T have seen a munber of
ol cmnigrants, and they all appear to bedoing well,
and congratulate the new comers.

Portau-Prinee is a very large city, perhaps
numbering 26,090 inhabitants. ‘The market and
the fountain are the great features of the phice.
The market honses are composed, inmost casts, oF
four straight stirks placed perpendicular, and are
covercd with coffee sacks or shinwles. bn the
aarket you can behold the produce of the country,
such is sweet potatogs, yams, pineapples, melons,
teeeplant, mningocs, oranges, lemons, cocoauuls,
ke, ee. The women do all the seling, and nealy
alithe buying, There is every thing here to con:
tent the heart of man on this earth.

The fountain furnishes water fur the whole city,
and thousand of natives can be seen carrying
sanall keys, or tanks of water on their leads. As
for toyoctt Dam contented and happy and by a
strict observance of the luvs of heath, Lexpect
to make a Iron diavilan, Yeu will hear from
Ing again soon, Yours, respectfully,

N. OB. ELAR RIs.

Aaytian Bavean Department,

BOSTON, SATURDAY, FEB. 4,

[s86z,

sees . 4 ' ‘

LETTERS FROM EMIGRANTS,
Hayrran Bennav or EMicnarion, }
Boston, Feb. 1, bKO2.

NOTE FROM A MASSACHUSETTS EMIGR

Mr. Win, Kellogg writes from Cape Hayti, Dee,
1%, [Rot as lollow., lo tus wite iu Camus Spe,
Missi: Mra, Charlotte Nellogg —- My Beloved
Wifes Dit down for w dew moments to write to
you, asi vessel i expereted to sail the Lath mstant,
nod Peannot tet the opportanity puss. These lines
willinfogo you that Pain in good health, and lave
been ever binee EP have been on the Palani, although
J was daid up sone three or four days, from an ae.
chlental ball while oni dadder, Te was a nasraw
erenpe Wathooy life, ond PE thank God that it is ne
worst Wilh ine than itis.

My dear wile, this isthe thad letter that 1 have
woitten to yeu, and Daan aisigieeto hear from soit
aivbiny dear children. ft would give mae epent sate
i:tnetion to bear Chiat you were all well and in good
eireamatance:  Dhope that mene of you suffer dor
want of any thing,

Obmy dew wate and childien, & do widr that
you were withame here, for P have fenrucd enouch
of this place, te know that there ine danger of
vou invite: bere,

Pdoonet sey that te wold be aulvisable fora tone
wot bo come out here, yet sore worsen base an
thi tor btrsress, sed eet adap even: Aere, alone,
Any indistetots ann emte take a deve heae, and
Hoany con Bengamaite were here, we corded ade well
Weeoeotbt pet amore bis than we conld da, al
voorheed ab care deacde Cwartcour seoaborge. >
Pia quien badness place, and Gere ane come
fine poople deve, aod Phave found seme ol then
here dieendiy. Onecat thea dies advced ae to tiake
Janel, Ufo piyes Decmdel cot dr cleupedd, witleot cnioh
mie oatoke en ah ble raya Poweadd putea
oil shop, the aative Web We rtd toe vednance
Toateeon cota thie denned fea diage wok Pohave vet
done any thing aty Gaede s baat) frave bern chabiays
carpenters” veotk,

A cvtsy wealthy pentleman bas ode ment other,
Phe peeeepere se: Mee cet dee tye dae detent: scone tie gebares,
sheae he will emagantee aaa neh work oe Pca
her jes tee Fenpaee cde tere Palins Wectenetde is Dede sind
wisi, 0, Cab jeavel drone, evel all thre Denrebicn fet gone
fee shea so ndec ae deeanece te Te i, aneeb will tid gine
peak wet Peet ctasted, and them Pian te toed ty
cif Can tes tase tral thot Paredes bbeae see
sate Gb the pues fea work smubdeeswheeby ho,
Pbaytuin, ne Se Oo, Ate ote ec dteney | te pudt

hot

fe

eb ctradlb eae, ot ben “yy ene cet abatt, o te
Haylie, oe of America, wheelbatsowe Aad
Cn Te

ete De antened Vedat ade Che coats te binder
te ted Phased drag acaba a peleaaty od
Vhe Mroeriean Corcat cated sectereiny Hint ble ne ward
ee grec nt Saar boge e cnee gad Beep pepe ae dey a andie Cobban, a db is
weotth Dwecaky ive certs pea peed, aneb will he
Vicdien CO thor ditasbes creas veay Pebete deter ON
porte ceive tod dae thsple det: Beta at Ceatiaves,
seted cline ted debe cootteate dattecdiess, bebe be die sandeb a de bed
Cb COOTY pened: ob cotton goa sean, Wit weal
ty Hlatesdessteed san tested pdb We capale eovandanss tee
this comatey yeas Peat drone the ctatea Wb na ended
that Wee eanipriads have aoived af ca, Mak sw ibin
the fact pep ee taeet bes

Ua ee TS)
eb iny eon eb bve ian peed teegebed
Hote ereegded Othe be b doy Gandy |
eed Tbe te de copier ia Aiba wary deve pens
Ved tng ipegelicnet doors fer Ce pote tee aed tbe dst!
hodea Macy

ana
Hannay,

tee

nae

Sad yeot
Faeve tee all,

Nebea

Porn adie: dey vgs edie peo deve

‘
fcc died, need Ghee cdot debeecre fee gener feanpuetueday, 00s
weet, Ved Nt. fee dpans Veh thas: Shei copepeoadenbty tee
peed bye Af bbe Dcned Peles geeer ald, cneeed UP ave
eee bee been eceetde, try We sath reer tate (heaven
Wo deb a tae

Vasee coerce dan be, bet WM dete Beat

pete, Cowl dyed for Meg tian bassseredin Pte
ow Piegele the paditeneas ed Me Saree UE
Day ber, cee bebe needing: Conds, Ldn been gine
Nb fee napeb Tee caebjadieeel ee Geeta Pret bette ne

been deed freee dada peo cad delesba peo be dbs et
Von. ange ebadly pertnees,
Copeonen Deve nte ey diy Me teat Neen

hao Aber,
Your ibs

bo dhol Theses fap

ered bee

Iba vn, tht
sees pee dave thead eeDbine yen

| ire ere ee TE ee the
Conte Head eee Bae any creed Harpe bnce te
vet wo DP Nek WH per dae ty ae we ed wep OH
vee eee etiape fo sete vb tee Meade tbe aed
hac fel, they abit ered ann
paletbatdetie, do Vite aad ae Se Re Ce EEL
Vee Mepebe Ele tas Petters Vpeonate ed Ged vet, any
CUNO MTT PR Oe
fereen, pace, eed bbye, crapedbeedan phe debate
tered cosnbaglecees Tle ade de dhe Anectbewi ge tapes
Here eedgabde eek tenes sale tee Tieage tpn Elba pacers

Te BSS TR Lee
Verge Dervet ceadelds oon dite ce apeten cont tlyes tpevboct Ue tbe
Hee tee bhyes ro HEE eeh ab tree eel peaisapeles
thon fa WM ee Wedborel attend ayal
COT] ME ee Le Ce Ee
He Vader), teetite dtiatey, ded bes pee tall
tM iladetplda  Peaty teed carey flit all (he
Nvtoeeenebe —senenraddpead Mae caadeapeed aasetbene ater fad
leo ag, withont over fer Cleo Msstaneagiead
Fess Chie EE aeteenegend dC Te ey pine teonniel | corte
eH, cob Ue oti tee da aided, (aid Clit pontine
beds be ees Gobelate re crvetea scab ty anges anton beet bl tee
He aetleead tha yoda, Gad (de neenniida tar the
weenie Meergetecsepesnen cote toate Ebaby tveesd tereddey
Hatten ad people He Hg tine, Ded i tebente
veh wt Le Der giiead ion Che atipueledty ot the Und
abs pee gee diet, Cad Cpe y WATE apes stig ene ea eedbe aga

wdiceest
feo
Pe

wn
oy

Pood Traiylews Geebbaby cad Ta aay e_pdidtan,

inmost courteous and eracefully polite people that f
eversaw, oo...) You can tellallofmy fricuds |
that Jerry is perfectly satisticd, and inno way dis- |
appointed with the country: itis just what Po had
anticipated... ‘Vell the friends they had
better not dispose of anything which they can con-
veniently bring with them—-their beds and bed-
ding, chairs and such dike- in faet, to bring all
theiv small furniture with them. Bring: all your
farming utensils with you, and do not depend on
these tales of getting anything cheap here, where
everything of the kind is imported. AH this about
bringing cattle, hogs, and poultry out here is aheer
nonse for finer catde Eo never saws Robert
Vurvis’ prize cattle don’t look better than the cat-
tle out here, 2...) There is as good a quality
of hogs here as the common breed is anywhere,
and only need improving: [ onever tasted better
pork, As lor sheep, they are hardly excelled by
the improved stocks of Amerien; but their woot fs
of no accomnt, because the Haytians don’t shear
them. There is every kind of chicken here, from
the Shanghai down to the Bantam,
There is an engineer wanted at) Port-au-Prince, or
will be wanted, so [um informed: tell Jolson
that Lean’t say anything about broom-making. — [
have not seen but three Yankee made brooms since
Ihave been here...) . ©) Oh, I forgot to say
that Mrs. Robinson* is well and likes the country
very well; she has got her land alongside of ours.
She is quite a tidy woman, and [ think that she
will be able to cope with some women who have
been free all their lives. Her two children are well
and quite hearty, 2.0. . Tell all the fiiends:
who are coming ont here to provide theniselves ;
with such litthe provisions as they would like to!
have on shipboard, such as sodabisecuit, cooked |
ham, dried beet, and such like, in sueh quantity as
would fast them about twenty days. ‘Tell all the
peuple Uhait they need not think to find a larze
city like those in the States, nor large cultivated
farms; but the credit of these improvements must
be given hereafter to the colored men from the
United States, and J hope they will not fait co em-
brace this opportunity of winning an- agricultural
reputiution for this nation of people, as well as a
waiting reputation which we have gained, the
world over, No more at present, but remain your
fricnd, &e., J. Buck.

Mr. George R. Taylor, Philadelphia, Penn.

9Mrs. Re was a contraband from Virginia.—a. 1.

PoRtT-AU-PRINCE, Dee. 1851. Mn. George
Taylor—Denr ¢ Wearrived at St. Mark after
a passaye of fifteen days, but were not permitted
to land, there being another vessel ahead of'us..
Weare here awaiting the action of the!
Government: [believe it will do all that it says. 1}
like it very well, here; Mr. Purvis is also satisfied |
and well; we intend to keep together, and are!
voine to take a place on s . The owner will!
furnish us with a yoke of oxen and a pairof mutes. |
EF would say vou had better not come out for ai
while; and the rest had better stop back and wait!
aushorttime . 20. . It takes a man with aj
stout heart and perseverance; but [0 believe that
allwill dike itaftera while. [ hope to vive you
more particulars in: my next...) . Your
serviuit, PETER QUIRE.

ee ge ae p

LETTERS FROM HAYTI. -

4

Aux Carns, January 1, 1892.

Kditorsof The Pineand Pala : To the citizens of
the United States, the fertile islands of the West In-
dies will always be objects of absorbing interest.
Ilow many there are who have looked upon Cuba
with eyes of covetous desire! And how many have
longed for the time to come when that most. bril-
liant gem of the Spanish crown might become one
of the United S [tis not at all surprising
that such pecntiar finterest: should attach itself to
Independent of the longings
that wd? spring up inthe hearts of some, to live
ina country of perpetual sumuner, itis to the West
ludies that our thoughts continually turn) for our
supplies of suvar, coffee, ete, Mat have become,
in the consideration of nearly every frinily, articles
of prime necessity. The fret that the consumption
of articles of tropical produetion has now become
very large, together with the facility with) which
these are exported front here to the Stttes, has a
direct tender cy to enuse the United States and the
West Tadies o become more and inere cemented
together by. gst ditimate and cordial: commer-
cintintercon +

Amon the ¢ Islands, Cuba tins hitherto holden
the firstvan' Bot in point of actual enpacity,
Haytiis full he equal if not the superior of Cua,
leis trae th the exports from Cubliat the present
time are pre sively ten-foll renter than those from
Hasti, Bata brighter day is dawning on this most
vt Since the restoration of the Re-
Fabre Getlrard’s accession to the Presi-

tes?

these lovely isles,

public, a
deney, a glew hapetas has been given to the eause
of civilization; and order and industry ave. fast

taking the phice of anurehy and ileness, | Promi-
hent smo, the menaseres that have been inves
rated by the Geffrard Gov erament, for the vestorn
tion of prosperity to this Eshund, ds tho Eandgeation
that he is new eneaurieing. Every
month, haadreds of colored people are arviving,
bringing with then: the fruits of civilizntion lhitt
they have gathered up while conmmingtine with
the of the North,
Minigration movements that have taken place, some
of these colored peapte, who arrive from Ameren,

Movement

whites Like all other great

noon eel alivcoutaed, mab prove themselves not
fitted tor lasdte the foundation of ae newer and
But then,
won, ceae do prove chemselves of the right mi
terind, and their combo: bideer can resale dae noth

better phimeoer Christhin civillation,

tele Tt peat ood fo the country,

Sonee oar nival dn dhis beatified Gropient tshiad,
and sine we tae neon for ausself din wordertit
fertibty Ube ra pivedieag fitness of soil, sivalling
Hintet the vadtey of tha Nite
preity for preducdie seh iivelots qauadity at

ane the nett ea

nericulreiial protaetionn, We lave Lecce power:
Cally draped: with the rau ht hae is as (be
very place daiehich the tatellegent, indtstris,
cn Cheatian minted colored men of the Cuited
Matecahoublt caugrate, Nid weeeoukt white that
pone ollie but oth ae we tase: elecenitecdd wert
he tonwided hens at omdnata Ube ds ie place

for weal intided, deaormiat ind taela deine pet

cota to dee nent Mae Tad beter neni call
Ton dcentied with dhe Chadethin eby tteation of
tlre wirblen Noel cute Qeconver dy ce gepeund tenesy oof Ufaee

Latter wilh tteeleed fobs Hobe ality fo thei ownethys
Atilenn vant will
Woede claty, ted wll to
world Chat (res ee ae toeebeed By ae deine Cbeedettin

Doethed od ties fies, RIT tn

whee’ te uhow the
eel dh, bey Chad) Cater day: Coy thas conven shot ated ote
vaet bern cof Ebru cto an Coarebelens Uovedtovaan ww laeee Gout
Wo bia pee btonee tan crentesd will a atagher shin
Voigt Chede coe

Weoace Hint the desidentat the Cited

tecommmiendda de iba desi Chad nome dropteal

Stade

Pent y clad ten pater tase, te cetee ttt adh trove
Phd ta beat the
Cote ed Che place ot Panel bate, da, ef Mbit

chosen tee, be eedoobeeced tenes
Qdoder cevevenvenpey antoy prevenern aed ys Eboeoeas
sechdng: Ute
the white
the Ttacha Ut da dine they

Vlie ad yen cates oat
neliohly

ape bation ol

Whee tee oven betineted ane

vee, pennedtires od
(dre wodlieees ot pretemd
weregcottel Coat Ctnede Ntadeatan Lepethie tev oad (bs
Cave Doe there dion Peced by tate ete Cee Dhv es Foy ttveaneeed aed ited
Clot, ee Dene fee Pre abiwed doredteen thas bfaetion
WH vecsneban ay dec qodce ed annoed atepenvtateed prsnopetes Oe,
(ODL CSOD CP CO CO ELS
Chere Ctee dat ee ds teepeedeonge cel ody Tetecentanse ca UTE nena a
pore vosdb coven lee vest ted, Ott, eta Uoseetanfeaes, ane Ut
chall te hersathar, overs te aw aeeh tba ewan
eh edd pet eve dda mettle ea Blade Bees
He pad wa braver cypdiod fide CW cl feonin
otal yet cover (he edie ened) aa Ha Witla cose
thie Visatlendt

free Peotters as Q0iet dees ede Che

thes nen bin toreetilitton at
Viele we will
colibeation ob jy gotta ot Ch cotoedk tee,
eocepting Hlth the cand op the purtics then
wlvad

(TLCS LL 0)

Vesv ver sabbe neha ctepbeed, veer Wesel Mtoe der Meee TE cee

Wo dae a tatieces
Woorseod tee nated ae adel pee a Plating, te the
HEY Cites Weta be dtiey pee Pi heort wt omdipente
BUIVENT 1 Me TOMO CC EK ar Clete oto
PV eve Teneave gatos Psttere age Cbasty tenet dad ceed
Voerne NM hye olneountel gran fee tle, Ora pee diane Ut vee
TOOLOTLOR WEES OCOR OL US MCE OL
Led adh, ad bead fay Thee present Me Gey
hapea cf anes sie agpen dened, (iy aiid net foo
tach, tet tee Hin leek aid leads puta eal
bre Phey nestet ge dedi, teh Cite wheel
SCT COAT TO Td MLE LC
Whe, Dae die Get Ain Hegepy esetipaity at Cie tats
wnnageeidieg puenancas, Goo Gyubeos dogo Polen aulrcnten ov dete elves ww tueheatel
DRE OTRO LPL CO
Abe nen ud, bot edd ag lta tet ent fen

theelbva

tvayes

until they seen Hastian gentleman. ‘They are rie |

tmade btter and happier, for his haying cone into
it. Wf aelass of colored emigrants, filled with such
a spirit as was in him, will commence forming a
Iine of march to this “Queen of the Antilles,” we
shall then have unbounded faith, not only in the
regeneration of Mayti; butin the entire elevation
of the African race to a stand side by side, with the
most civilized of the white races,

The present inhabitants of Hayti are by no means
unanimous in looking with an eye of favor on the
inmigration scheme that has been inaugurated by
President Geffrard. Ever since the Revolution in
this island, foreigners have been Jooked upon with
suspicion. And although this feeling bas been
confined mostly to the foreign whites, yet it em-
braces, in a measure, foreiyn colored people also.
They seem to feel a consciousness that the new im-
thigrants will bring with them more industry, in-
telligence, ane real ability than they themselves pos
sess; and that as a consequence, the new-comers
will increase in wealth and power, while they (the
old inhabitants) will deercase. This is the feeling
of some, and it will serve t explain to immigrants
the occasional absence of that cordiat welcome with
which they hoped to be prected.

jut the Haytians arc not all suspicious. On
every side of us, we sce noble-minded men, who
have within them the elements of a hizh order of
manhood, Their intelligent countenances speak
the longings they have for a higher devclopment
of Christian civilization. Wecan almost read in
their faces, the old Macedonian cry, “Come over
and help us.’ And if they are idling away too
much of their precious time, they may in all sim-
plicity reply, “ft is because no man hath hired us.”
Their fathers, from Dein slaves, were turned adrift
to take care of themselves, like so many children,
that had previously leaned upon others to provide
and take care of them. The present zencration has
inherited from the one which went before, that
same childish simplicity, along with an unconquer-
able love of freedom. But, in addition to this,
many are yearning to taste the sweets of a higher
Christian civilization. Public opinion begins to
shape itself in favor ofa purer morality. Indeed,
every where around us we see mudplying evidences
that “the waters of the pool are beginning to
move.”

{n regard to the health of Hayti, we think that
the southern portions of this island may be classed
as rot unhealthy, if the immigrant will only pay
proper attention to the laws of health.

There are quite a number of foreigners in Aux
Cayes. As aclass, they look remarkably healthy.
Some of them have been here for twentystive and
thirty years, and they report an almost uniform
stite of guod health.

The “trade-winds,” that sweep westwardly almost
unecasingly over the waters of the Caribbean Sea,
seem to exerta very salutary influence on all this
southern portion of the tsland. Ando the nightly
Jani, and daily sea breezes, modify so creathly the
influences of a tropical sun, that the climate may
be designated as pleasant and delightral.

Lremain, very truly yours,
Bb. PF. Saxvorn.

ee eS

NAVIGATION & COMMERCE OF HAYTI

Important Statistics for Congressmen,

BY JAMIE

Hitherto the science of statisties has been utterly
nesdeeted in Uaydd. Upto che date of the fall of
Somouque, the othcial statisdes of ad) at the pre:
ceding govermments were worse than useless; for
they were the result of a deliberate calendation to
deceive on the parcor their public agents. | Under
the Empire, tor example, the most responsibly cus-
tom-bouse officers received a nominal salary aut
was barely sufivient to keep them in cigars, ence
ships, heavily laden with Freneh ov English goods,
which should have paid a duty amounting to
thousands of dollars, were often reported) in the
Government returns as having arrived=-widd bad:
fast. ‘Tho comptrotlers got rich ino a few years
with the profits of such ballast, and) Pro-slivery
politicians in’ Amerion became Gradzrind Jere:
Niahs, when they wrote about unforainate Haye.
A ditterent system tas been estiblished by Geitrant,
but suleiont time has not yet chipsed, owing to
other serious and pressing duties, to organize a
systematic Barean of Satistics. ‘The wo tullow-
hg articles, however, from the ‘Travail, (Porean-
Prines,) of September 16, 1860, ave ofcial, and
their figures as nearly correct as it is possible to
obtain them ander existing circumstances. An
addition of ten percent, on all the figures would
vive very neaely dhe true restlt,-- hus allowing for
the difference between Euglish and Waytian
Webzhts and measures, and adivitted: errors in the
returos. The Grstardele ison the conniverce bee
tween Hay dan the United Saites:

“Tho navigation of the United States in Haya
employs, under the Ainerican thiig, one-balt of che
foreign ships that frequent our port. As Chese
vessels aie pencrally smatter than these which
come from Barope, they represent only forty-avo
per cent. of Che total tonnage, Bat it) should be
remarked that, thanks co their fall cargoes beth in
arriving and returning, they ean dx their rate: of
trelphtatanere taverable terms Chin cheiy compet:
iors, ‘The vemuarh whieh bas ahnest beeen an
anton, Chat the navigation of a people develops
Tiself i proportion to the produets exported, duds
here new proem “Phe vali of che importitions
trom the United States, and Che amount of the
claty pail by chem: tothe fronsary, is about forty
veaceen i, of the total TE represents 2,250,000,

worth ofamports, pot whleh uinecy per cent. av
rise aader dhe Ameriean thar The ehie® of these
Doportations ave, pork, dn ita cterent farius, and
thay, whieh amonne te about day per cent. of
them. Sarbjolned are (he tyires ot the qaantides
thtveduecd, amt ot the indication eC thele valie:
eR LUD

REDPATH,

Candtes..,

Warttee tel Cheese ooo ee yhoo
Cootel want Silvas Lae . boas CAROL)
Porndtuee aid Manataetiied Woods, 3.000

Cotton Staite outa

Vhons AU RUA
Salt Heed . sajon0
Meh kn ve ee ee

Mork, Uli, ane Lard. cae

er an en ROR
Dap, AERA

Vetheles ot whibels shartlar avi protiseed: tu
thie cagtey

Lavvovetoen atid Strides dees

Re oo...

cttw Astle bea an

‘Vober, fa heise adel Minaiticctiuvedd

edited Sapa,

7
2 trade
RUA
bane
ALLY
reyau
Pork, Guildins wood tubacea, view. atid
PUI DT Ge Boy percent care Oba datab dae
Prevtation. Tre proportion aceiy penmenal diubtestry
chath develop Geel, tte Gnpordatia at Crewe ante
che wilbatinindeb, for we ai qutte ae well sdinited
we the Vitel States Ge predice amet ateteles
Plea bo be bed Gat an enti of tobacce,
Five Doman, ated be itictonehy adbaneed, 60
cher focesehite Grea dhe Hat at ore coreg hetes
thes peesreloedtonne ont Tho Beaton Site ot thie
Unto Vito vedaetion, Mewever, wet Tandly
Papeete oie commie with the Cathe State,
Whore prev te GMs et eh cede tae att
crease covery ebity Wiltet astute ave trnate wascdst
fore theme abe, Choy wertdl aha on the ottin;
Youre arose cre ee eedead pa tiedglea antler baa,
we woiht be hagpy te ace ang relatbena, even dill
weet, WHO he Hendin, appoae (er aie venidin
vfab tabled. Woe have onte der tet be oN peda tit ie
IRM CER RC ee TC
Hage Dave el bappeasietl Crome erie Qibone ener ae tite eee
Vladterd Matea ba beet) we tel Gaeiiy ontetea an
eter Cee Wty tbavee Cheers G Pee tens yuan Teves toene astnes
iota veer ta odie dee fae) teeth Celi ad dhe bane
phe Wed ppd Clea nel Lethon tbe at gn
per ennt on thee tha ed all teiatee Chiat Dad ned ney
Peeve nt eee Capital Diba wea aed andy at
RUE |
Wes, odes, eet oeeetn a avast bonatit cet serntbennnanl elbaeandey tee
are Lele ene Mannose de rete eicenee faeceat, utente ae coedpersaeaal
Phe wean eden el dee tea de Watabotitan 8
Vi net nethedy calito Ga hee cerminpe a et Toad
ATT MALIA ST UC
“Wan pnablead baton cite redone a awe
Hropha on de carte hi at HE a Bayt an Pyne
Cretg, Cho Heat ety getittia et Ha a well aa the

| pba te va dhe bok eeeneeetes dba Hie Paattist tates,
Weed ogee ear eaPebbhy CHenseay etd Meeeasprsate abt ivan Nak top det
flaw yrreesnd Clee, Mee Hrlepititoeace an Pha dy bete beaee
Veveaspy cnnste vannen Danndayied Voy Chane ggheved Weegee dectty Hepat, we fyveost
sereneptn atin tage PPh eed doe Footdindee ality Peee (te
tertttog eormeeten, Rey taend pden, Peatecte, Mies teen, wid all
Uhatebeveboa, loops ‘Tone POU aL Mes Vasa ting asitiae
POY STMT METTLE RTS CD OU CY
TOE ERMC ROOT (kc) Me Ch OTE |
Wee Tevabaegeartontaceneny eb eterna Cee abebabeeed ottaeh better deavnsneent
Wivcqeantebas vob Ota pead coed Glarend te Naan tie g srann, rvbunenting lat
teeta, pode Fedbece dieses feline ea reerebeseetitine, mead
walehet saathog, tate tabs godh al pes Wan bean eeu gets
abe ettlinactien dee artesian esriedctea, bla tld feed cactus aat
UVTETS Oho bene ase onegeenseed Cre ties Cael a eee ceedatbad caus
teeta ee RbUE DEON ED Ptaveteentaganss, WEED Mou teats Bhs Vat Eta scate ot
tenebedsab eeaesetal ageisbs, Halil ed etaaade, de ba ee
RT Ave UHaen sapreste: porte bm ve Aiba Ranngetens, onan vosensg tbl tacue aunty
Neve ntrltsn nypecntdeng vga Habe geen dy eater titre BMS Eitatedd Mitbes,

walerenntsd bone Soegepeebonte sd Tie Pleeteeta, Na Virgh, ead Vital
vote PD geteattetgant, qutene, Ploae tnueewnmncd dandy aunetoedtiedgest ae
Vase teal \n elanenge bee cet besene tantetee bey ae dren ated

trend Che Hbepaitdie, fed ata Che canst at thin age
av asinete bet Vecedoantal aobeaed evan edasony GUE vende gestae dsreae |
Vor HE de dee ti nae iatiead, vtere getty tneaaiiioa, te atl, wilt

Hien, ie cdoh top tae aedtlaly, eee by lappebiieae
MCU MMe UM ORTON Le Lo Mk

toh vetvees Vne Pabeeon Gra acnee Ul staged Navel tor Ue vanege gente
Tesi pp tied Nae bly nt te, Elon vue cased Lavsevetetadbnd eet
aromnene EbeieE veee etre sonee ge ae le lay

Aver scene tke , weber ree

amount of duty collected by the custom-house of
the same portin the same time.

The import tonnage has risen to 17,865 tons, and
the export to 19,460. As usual, the United States
hold the first rank, and are represented in the fol-
lowiny table by 9,600 tons,

5,000 tons.

France... ...
Eneland........ eee cee eeeene s 2,000
Hanover, Denmark, Sweden, Hamburg, Belgium,
Holland, and Spain complete the list.

The amountof the invoices of importation is
$1,498,145, Spanish.
For the United States. 2.2... .....000.6-.- $055,400
For England.... ... . cones 843,870
For Franee.......... ete ce eeer scenes s 228,680
The countries named above make up the differ-
ence,

‘The amount of exportation, reduced into Spanish
dollars, at the rate of fourteen Havytian dollars to

one Spanish, $1,403,000. This tomprises:

Dg
United States............ enone .
Enyland,........000.005 ceeeee sees 196,600

$560,060,

The import dutics amount to
: +o S100)

United sta
France.....
England ...
Other countri
The export dutic
France. ......6.. 005
United States...... .
England. .........00.
Other countries. ...
Exportation compri
Coffee. .......

7,
» 8,406,000

100,000 pounds. !

Since the Haytian Bureau sent me copies of The
Pine and Palm, I have carried them about, and the
peopic like them so well they are almost worn out.
Four families will be ready to go from here. Most
of those who are members of the Baptist church,
want to £6 to Hayti.””

In a third Ietter, Mr. Johnson says:

“T have been trying to find a place of rest for our
color in the United States. 1 was twenty-four years
in the South. There we were driven and beaten
like brutes; our biood shed without a cause. There
I said, as I wept—‘How long, oh Lord!’ There
they pert cur wives and children, showing no
mercy for us. I came to the North—to find that it
upheld the South. Then went I to Canada... .
God will now let the Americans be punished—the
South for holding slaves, and the North for snp-
porsing her in her wickedness. The North has
permitsed the South to rule over her, and do
iniquit:, and therefore He will punish the North for
‘ agreciny with her. Nevertheless, God will preserve
'the North... . Notice the laws of the United
States, and their execution. They say, All rebels
shall be hanged or shot. That was good doctrine
against colored men, and John Brown and hi: fol-
lowers; but when the slaveholders and their friends
come in, they pardon them, or swear them, and kt
them so. But, I thank my God, He has opened a
; land of rest for us, where Justice and Truth will

3299

| prevail.

—

CALL FOR EMIGRATION.

Men of our race dispersed in the United States!
Your fate, your social position, instead of ametior-
The chains of those

Loewo0d. oe. ccc. cece eee «'{ ating, daily becomes worse.

Cotton a “ who are slaves are riveted; and prejudice, more
Cocoa 65.0059 implacable, perhaps, than servitude, parsues and
Mahogany. ...... 0c. ccc cece cece S20 feet crushes down the free. Everything 1s contested

The expor in French vessels has

amounted 7,500,600 ponnds,
MICA. Coe cece eee eee 2,360,000 pounds.
beeen eens tere eee Al 835,00
. 1,060.00 *
: se sees 1,000 «6
Other countries. . 155500 — |

_ It will be observed on examining the above
figures, that the imports and exports are nearly to |!
the same amount,—a fact which, if it were general, !
would indicate a healthy condition in the com-!
ineree of importation. ;
is usually the ease, the amount of merehan- |
dise coming trof France is in proportion neither |
to the sperial tonnage of that country nor to the
exportation. Thus, fora half-vearly ‘importation |
of about 1,200,000 franes, France has reeeived in
return, 9,0°0,600 of frances of our produce.

The difference is explained by the preference
wiven to our coffee by the French; a preference on
which speculators have depended, on the strenuth
of the new law in France; on the other hand, the
imports from the United States and England are
double the amount of the remittances under their:
lays. This fact: proves thatthe commerce with .
America and England has been transacted throush
drafts on France, and that American vessels, of a
tonnage $0 considerable on che comparative table,
have been laden with articies of small value. I[n-
deed, ont of 8,400,060 pounds of lozwood exporiel,
the United States have taken 6,200,000,

Another observation worthy of remark js, that:
for an importation of S000, the French have
pail 374,000 ror impor: duty, or $3 per cent... and

the English for SH3.870, have paid only $3.09, |
or less Unui 6 per cent. Although the merehar-

dise received from) Frinee is efien composed of
articles of luxury, we chink there js eceasion
examine the question under ts several ;
Certainly the tonnage day, weighing acceding
our system on the imports, madifies the propor:
wa
value of S228,680, whilst on the other, 2.30 tons!
sive S340.970. But this circumstance is) neti
sunicient to explain so greara diferenee. We!
think it would be good in che interest of the con |
sumer to take these observations inte consideraion.
Many articles which have been lomr leoked upon
as things of luxury, are made ioday at very few:
prices, and would he aecessibie with a moderate |
duty, bucareexeladed from our habits by a heavy |

wo

tion, since on one hand 3,00 tons represent on

tix. However, we reason one x 2}
servimg any discussion on stmpar t The |
duty on American cargoes, which are composed,

tor the most part, of provisions, kas been Hkev
below 16 pers cent.”

By fav che largest portion of the exports and im: |
ports occurs in the months of September, October, |
November, and: December. Daring the first six !
months of every vear, not more chan one-thint of
the auaual exports and imports ane made. The
forexoing fcures, therefore, must be reeanied in
the light of this tact, to give a true result in’ esti+
nuiting the vearly commerce of the capital.

So far, for che commerce between the States and
Have, and for the trade of the chief port. These
snubjoined figures, whieh are alse otcial, will give |
an ides of the gener) commeree of the Republic:
“The commerce of Hayti employs amiually be |
tween S00 and G00) vessels, giving a toml of about |

‘de

70,000 tons, distributed among the tollewing |
mations: , -
Ships Tonnay, |

United Sates. ee SS0.000 |
Teghtad seu AIRS st ;
| Ee
German, Danish, Swedish, Rus- |
SIU eee i S000 |

Holland, Belginm, lalign, Cen-

tral Arierion, Spanish. 00.0. Ca?

To these tigures muse Ge added) 23 per eent.. it
onler to arrive ac their registry tonnage: for the
Raytin mode ef computation gives iivaribly be-
tween Wo and 30 per cent. less than the ship's wg!
ister, |

The import duties paid to the Shue. under che!
Ripire, averaged beoween $800,000 and S900 000 |
annuily, and were derived as fotiows:

Vaited Stites... nn bees APES URDU
Mugla. occ cee ee eee eee ESOAND

Brame eee TCO |
ther Plaus.... coe ESOT

“The aural exportitiens of dhe pravipal
staples miu be estitnated duis:
Cotte... Leas AU, CODOAND Ps,
Low ood SOOO CRD
Cotton TOMO mdgimen,
Coon os 12V0,000 Ts, Una tian,
Mahonany oo, “

tlavdian,

TACOO0 food dined”

T OAM reais efgire per cent. (oes) dee the litera be
tween Has Gan sil avertipors ponds

Copp. TELL trad

trate be

Brom the dha

editor,
¢ wee 8

NOTHS PROM COLORED OLERGY AMEN,

We aww in reecipt of several tetters font colemd

. . i
cloppanen, (eur whirk we oniakela few eathaeds, 60

show that dhe henost, tant working, Chriscan men,
wines (he colored: people of this cour, aw Gtk
bet of de Hay chan Mowemeng in earnest
Vavvidenee da ttn as

ies ate
in dears cleat a call o¢
Chabhien et tractdih in

Vhe postion of

imy
the
and Varen
Pes pi was prvepebs siardiie Co tlie present postion

thie watts ef Masses

the tsaaelutes in

at (he eatored tee ute Urmerdea Tha th warue Sve ay
Dott tant ai undorbted: ri ht te

fre (Me eet |
Vive and lle dn”
entel it, bean dy spt far dhe thet: pots oe Bae pt
Vot (at dai xeey say te the Chosen Peeple Stay
fu Page pe att Aaht ib ene one Ober and at
fervor Boer was che Dodie Comme|nnt tat
eatin, Gs tiesd bali clays, ever egies Tha ti
weaver

Dot tat aiarbers whey one

for salibuliy et elie er edits en saat
Wits ball seccheevatar of ihe pradse ot bet ay land
erper hare taee wade vaedthe ated thorn.

nee dele, amd Hebe berating te be practically be

Theva Chat Qt Gea al) te tear oliove tbe sat: |

feelag peopte te these dha et alo Virerlean tenia
enn as (neh daa cod Che Bane prina Mavens
Won wer tar pitta alt air eva tvepatntened, lds
faet would be appavcnitedd oi wornlh bar sou eluat,
WHT ty Phe Tha Git Mev ernend Gs tit Qe ciitae
see Has Her eet Tete seit AHOEp Tid, bal
mies et DM Ee Tver dtotiee (i @lie breinag nye
eta peaple, tertined be diliabit nit corgited (tie
Over CSET Fapiey atid ihe Chet autagn seat te

thay pyereed ood apvete armed tee Ub bee ghar Te wane tet Qh

Wate Cat thea aphentid avssaen: wart cattedt did:

Veardangyy Tow tlie Ceeatert tart tee bas Gabatertad by watt
tettetvaa, Ob ge gees VET TEEE Only bate de be
tla eradle wd ia ent Wave bee re dee ttevedettts
Vow Voter tabard Utatas ale, asa Xen,
(Males, Wi llesa
Dheae Nae
Traced cline dae Henne places, ail evans
Whore Eenei Hii tte eatin portation han
tpremie dee ote tey Etat Phte bot
PCY CRIM TERUMASA LOC ML ORaa tt OO USK
Weve tel tea ele aie bs cesar Aa Shah
Fad, Gen Geariy Chimes Caan, thie
TNT MUITEY ROE KOLO COOOL MEU
Ae sntatted  Mheee peagde dT contitite fit a Tape
That Trey, cvetel UE tennenay: qtr dae tas ae tavtad working
fit Tabor tas poagde, andl Ew tae teat bad hee
ef on rend abavacion there da tlie eae: Gaede
Toa tie Qari ebb pared Ce Naa ne New Vek,

ENR POR ELITR LUM RDA RO COSC Woy
ry TE Cee Deserta, betel eed qed Beet

Vhveaey poosengetoy iaet Tevet Weta paegehy Cn tne
Word puny ly, Tart cant er tii ey hey

VAAN oo bpae Tee EEA CE Gan Uoatesecnnner et deatnen, and Ge ena
(how Abnad ed dha ie Otrnvelr nieberd oo,
they agheny dae atl thor daw oe tha

Uae auteeed toe lettin, AMY tates as

ANS er (he Liberia mil va eaiiag ged Tea
Aaneteay abo its cteden erie ta age de Tha th ana
Hoorn olen Ane etilanine oP dtatt centiyy
Tame tion ii cela br liipoaadd on. ben i the
Needed Mond Ae REET reatved ty Kw ny
Has th, Date appatetieni be eae tie wi) ta a aid
tral, { ve 1 Vin Vorb. Utena Gaavay ti ctvoaadingy
Hheciaey av Tlyptist crbetaton wet tad a ported
Hebd at Ci eames aid clan 2 dation indie

Fea tion ved beet ation (hat Cie, bhave ben
in Nn Fre gied Chic eaten poeple (aga da diag hand

Vise Gridley |

Hittee Peet dhe papecn avn vi |

wetlvad Gane Elawve !

with us in that country in which, nevertheless, they
boasi of liberty; they have invented a new slavery
for the free, who believed that they had now no
Masters; it is this humiliating patronage which is
revolting to your hearts. Philanthropy, in spite of
its noble efforts, seems More powerless than ever
to lead rour cause to victory. Contempt and harred
increase against you, and the people of the United
States desire to eject you from its bosom.

Come, then, to as! the doors of Hayti are open
toyou. By happy coincidence, which Providence
seems to have broagh: abont in vour behalf, Harti
has risen from the long debasement in which 2
tyrannical government had held her; Liberty is re-
stored there. Come and join us; come ard bring
to us 4 contingent of power, of lichs, of labor;
come, and together with as, advance our own com-
mon country in prosperity. We will come br this
means to the aid of the philanthropists who make
such generous efforts to break the chains of those
of our brechren who are still in slavery.

Oar institutions are liberal. The coternmen: is
mild and moderate. Our soil is virzin and rich—
we have larze tracts of good land, tearly all enecl
tivated, which only need intellizens workmen to
till them. Everything assures you in this ewasny
of a happy future. For these amen vou who
Possess capital, it will be easy to find az once a
place among .us. The counmry oders them imme
diate resoureys. They can count on the sollcizcde
of the Government, and on its special prececties.
Onur society is ready to adopt them axd preparms
for them a fracemal welcome. They will enjoy
here all the consideracions thas i
will occupy the rank that their Tas
signs them—all the things thar a Dlind and tar.
barous prejudice refuses to them in couacries in-
hospitable to our mee.

The poorer emicrant shall have the richt to 22
that their simation demands. The Governmers
will provide for their Orss necessities, and will ake
the proper measures tO sovare to them a qaiee acd
honoradle asvium, as well as to facilitate for che
the means of obsaining emploviment.

Ik is very natural that von should ask, before
coming to an unknown county, what are the A
cilities tha: will be affonded te you, as wed ror the
‘acden of your first neds, as for yoar desis
tive setilement. This thought has sereasir ceve-
pied the Chief of the Repablic and bibs Govern:
ment. .

T proceed to stase the decwrminaciva wo
has come:

To such of you as are nos aNe cw pay the ex-
Penses of your passacy, ald will de given foc de
pultic trasury.

Agents, whom [ shall presently appeint in che
United States, will be charged 10 @ the reese
SAIV armansvorenes in this respect.

Qn their arrival hem. the emistane will dod
lodginze gramioously, whem, during the dsss fw
days, their needs will Be provided for.

Government will occupy iseit trom this dnt
with providing means to oder each rere, 02
arvival, either on privan esams or the patde do
mains, suticiendy remanenadive work,

Ewry indivittual. the issue of Atrican Mood, ray,
immediately on arrival, declare his wish oy De mas
nilindl: and alter one year’s nsideooy, be ca bt
come a citizen at Hayti, enjoying all Rs atvil acd
potitical rights.

The emigrants will de exeripe from miliary eo
view, bur their children, when they ame at the
Tequisity age, shall be belt oo perdomn the arvice
contormadly to the laws of the cominy: that b>
way fir a Koved tie, gtd ts So eo 7
scription, [Par gate ae 6

they

Wick is

tinge aW Bae

conception does not constiqury, in their Aves, 3 7

Modification af the law on che National Guan, of
which every citiser must rw a park

You will have power, aba, treeik to exercise
your miigion.
Lhave spoken here only af the remiss of the
Atvican race, who gman ta the Uaitad Sans moc
than elsewher, by mason or the imate proftuiive
et evlors Dut our synyAnivs avo syualy eanndal
WA Chose of our origat who tareusheut 2s
work, aw bowad down under the weighs of Oke
sane sutttrings, Let tent conw to asl The das
onear the country is open to ther abso,

Treiwet
if, Mey Wi Be aldo 9 aR, CHEE an ee padit
or private estatys, Gertie hands, wher, Ry dhe ant
of assidtions labor, they will dnd Ghat Rappitest
which, in dhol actual oundigbos, Mey cared hop
a tind.

The man whom Gat bag pofaaat exw

tinge to elevate the disnig of his mow bs 8
Vhe hour of the mtiuion of the chikiten ef Haag

is suonmdad! Leg chem Dowell oozvinoad af Hay)

is the bulwark of theit lider!

Given at dhe odiew ot the Soewauy of Stag at ON
Interior, ad Peres Brite, fhe SAE ot
TN, EN evar of Drdopenddortens
The Seortiry af Stan of Justia amd a Wess

ship, anand pin darcnea, WR the parttode of hy

Anterioe and of Aartentaig, RoR De sors

Pea UE) CORERE GGL RRS COMET

Vat brouse Ve sitet Siren ah Byers
svtvanie Ma i witty pen are ait ye nedyeg ts ott

Pants ts te ena Ree gemerus Roopihelthy needle at her

Nebo paepeuths, and acest ore dees Ge vessd qgets

Loaninetal waat)h eb Mer madris pens ats

‘ AgiMne Vale Stall we bath rant Sal
PW gimettely sewepd Gna betes eat verve nna So er me}
3 "shal ay Saat rn
ash and way Geltiand Stab wy wade t hand

sien Ree pepe nadia ie gE en anarent at Thad wannl
eriteiyy sestad SP Ord Petite Wants, wah as wer
sat praia or attiy tradi Shady Than cave deat ve
Stall was tee cette ee ENG TG IE a Cesare ta By oy ar PeO, wt
Ate Bhosatiigs att Berreitie od eanugut inet, pave we
ATCO arb preven, nulediigeey and pay an, wate aid
Hieres et stirs gtd Nader oh aivenintaas [Ure ag beet
aati Dea paver dite Wl, oartagay, oan ands
prbe Chad ot aire fhe Aryertaare ee Vow, we ;
AN Wo Weg ttin Hefner Batis panel Baveded he spay al
(be atestionant said we Da ety Pages ad orypsaueny
Ay 8 deaatoge wd TUATLUEAE, CHEE RHOHHEEEN EN BDO SPATE avd
Preven at tte gg Py dvands, Be anp arnt RSC ese beet
| AI WHT ee meet) Re Flite ts es sie pra
Pari (he opp er Giitia vty atta Bae wth i deattas e
| tans et Die Goad Glas Gears Wate eo hiv
| Otte ATE A pOs TAB UTlaY | tna foutpoutiy abt Oe tvrtadee
I tatty, PRGA tee verarihe dbypar dient at bata ere
STU RITTROM COR TCLELICOI ICY wqueeroat BU SUE thea tine wen
Ales ett: Vlre evevena Wah caged ated bbe te
Pet Vyperl, Chane attionting ebannbeine Gary hy WeRntlel puvyners
ART OTIETIN MOT MCSNON KOR KS MSN LE ULE LU NO SE OLS On BO
| wh amd, fssatist ya hotly Weird ali da trtok at aga
yevietatty tne that POCLLAD ORR SL padige, end
ytee Sty boon ast et banat etl Tye Ab ape d AT Bee teers
Forres ein Ted ed, at Baie de vty shige nbatt Was
SAH BE itt Rugadigs with Qhy Gayoreta, wall
pha ahtiwer, We dee Ati, wee seh age
at Bamity Ba Re TOS GE RESTRTD tha Ne MAYO,

URsrgueteasng, Ba

eager,

POPE AD THIS OU SAUER GIN TIN RORDRES OF
SOD EE CARER UN SE Mat tions Mae Wy
wi Litiastietints by Geta Wai Cie Da Mae,
Ae) De ToL OS ;
F Pie pudeetpeh Wah bsd ab tebe Ga tyr Gigg Dad a Viwd
Avante tes dag wnt at Tarte Wi Raab be desitend od
ASheasdeid the diate Ehe ania bee eretiis peaites oe thee
ONTO MCORP LC ME RCOUTSUUCC@ ORT LS
Tent pavaceiteth adda anid ace ot el aint viweaty ee bev ake
| stateabetes atsation ty Eta el be cathe tase Behe Puatiad

ae
N Artie ae (hE Be st odie Creeetew er eM

Seine
ry eeree)
AL. Pareto optata dhe db be Qe dedi On ae
UAV atiae tne ee oad \e the bkaade vt aie daly aad he
MUICCRCR OTC IM Cor Unt LOM DL) Rika
Hist deavey ob el tbeadion Whe aterha (ho anit) ot wtad
MOUS TET MRT CME COME CLS OM CE De Tanetetyy aunt pos
TU ab end GNA dye Flgtioe ad elo Qe dyethoeny af
In TORCTIIN NOK In| CR MECR ODES DE CL a
AE SUE TRnuaadingar, eh nenatagtee Be Pe hageeh Maat
few maeg Dae ;
Pliwe wheel Ga Kaen esigedlita af he bidae of
RUMIN ENE ENEMY CLES UOTE BLM USC RAS
RR UENC CUMESORICT SCORES AL AL aN vet Fhe will ogi Bo
wwaltivgg Fo bay HE bade evete etn biti all WHE do nu priat
GAL eye Bawovtie detieiia peng oer Rend 8 vavat y
Urb et a han} neg Be eb ale ay a cllra ea pane
AVbidy Bedven ob OEE Ran cedoggatentes, byser dena, AH Rue dhe ese
whe Pqeve ee
rieard bey Wath Ge any adtibyawa any peed at tha reall peas
Wr eshe ve Aer Oitlscot fate Pav aan Fay

AU YUEN TCR (Nab agen Se tN MERE ae tate: tae
Ena eT Rha he tea ada tha Miter’ Maye
AE Che Repeated af TRG AEE ately Ga aati byt oe tse ee
Wee ati ey ge puntellitaa TE bo aC bang adie. aint haul
ayayely teat Mada a vent sand, Me ad peat,
A ETO, OH Feet at Rhye atau aad

Vir Corie Se MAR re WHC Gr ate Papas ar Hee
Ute ty Data mich oungnbedtady datvhagd Mey at gn dd, oa
Vastu, aabagetanl oa vaty Wes Phe odie, Nal wt hye yea
hw Mb bt at euekay ty HXpTeQiN NY the Baltiaa,
hon Weetreca thin, ER thekaaie atived, New
Vad

‘Shaw

ANU OAN Nv) VATE
PUWUEUH Ey BY RAY FAVA,
CTROMC TINS OSL LOO E
WA UUM WRI, PR
WYan Tutlgy ar ating, AAVATaDR HA ad

MENT «Navvardlaty sil, fe tot

vette, AE pent castle ie
Vetaatythonal pow baie

“Aa ara:

NUMBER.

YEAR

—_

i.

BOSTON :

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1862.

WHOLE NUMBER, 135.

The Upper Branches.

like Seommon sense,” that although it enjoys, fleeeed of an ox by the Chiboqne, than’ he

warming itself by a fire left by the negroes,
it never thinks of adding fuel to keep it burn-

Hymn.

Trese eve :

Pome eve bath beard the bonainans prayer,
Pra set—ror the prile of man is low:

: cof the wise ar moa:
Tv: sentance Hows

ath owe God in merey Wrowht:
mY Gedoaf Hest!

Spexdon thy work, Lor » Host
: an's chaiu is iiven,

Agi whea the bondi
sWeos from ad our sue
Tae Phe tree ta Heaven im
ase waom Chow last fed,

toud amd fire berore,

in fear and dread,

ory evermere!

nee.

aise amd c

al
With as,

our conmiry’s vliar clinss 5
naing shade of Mavery os corse

ee) <
Sans and ret

to bear?
Wr ow ur re the chain,
Houreen kh

Sin Freedom's maniy part,

n
auth,

ew OF OWy fan
oe yause, our sua may seo

wived, arudnd our aiiars fowins!

Rte
3

sof huma:

ferey siven,
sfomys prayer
trom Heaven.

owing, underneath their lids,
that draws while it repels.

ing.

1

{

As the localities in which it) resides are |
very limite.1, the species will probably beeome |
extinet, as soon as man there becomes more |

eivil'zed.

If we were to visit: the innermost of the
Fan and other eannbals, sueh as the Osheba :

and Mashoba (whieh we have no desire of |

doing), a stride of 400 or 500 miles would
bring us somewhere in che country of Mati-

amvo: whieh we might have reached hy a

similar saide from the south of Lake Tan-:

eanvika, This distance, or even a

shorter

one from Uravwa(if the Arabs’ aeconnt be!

correct), separates the tribes described by
Captain Burton from those deserihed by Dr.

Livinestene, as the last-mentioned traveller ;

passed throuzh a country adjoining that of
Meienvo. and fell in with people who had
hoon there.

Matiamvo is the hereditary
ing, whe is lord-paramonnt of the Batonda,

x!

amd his capital seems to bear the name of its
ruler, Tis predecessor in the sovereignty,

woe died early in| D844, was a imad_ prince. |

Ile wold sometimes take a run through the

; them drops a knife near the ford of a river. |

. “ '
tide of the ;
> yet a Negro cannot resist the temptation of

town with his sword, an | decapitate all whom ;
he mer untibhe had made aheap of haman

heads.

would place it in about 5 deg. 45 min. 8.
lat. ‘They mentioned another town, Jsuba,
belonging to an independent chief, as_ eight
days’ farther, or in 4 deg. 50) inin. S.. dat.
These visitors were as uncivilized as the Ba-
londa, clothed in a kind of cloth made from
the inner bark of a tree. Their chiefs do not
admit strangers or fire-arms into their coun-
try. ;

The Balonda women are good-humored,
spending their time in everlasting talk, fu-
neral ceremonies, and marriages. They spoil
their looks by inserting pieces of reed into the
cartilage of the nose. A funeral occupies
four days of dancing, wailing, and feasting.
Guns are fired by day, and drums beaten by

came forward with larger demands for him-
self. A fight seemed inevitable ; as the chief
demanded one of the party as a slave, besides
aun and other things, ‘These were per:
emptorily refused ; and the travellers prepar-
ed to foree their way. Then [awawa allow-
el them to go as far as the river, ordering the
ferrymen not to let them cross 5 and the ea-
noes were removed. But one of the party
pereeived where a canoe was hidden amongst
reeds ; so that they borrowed it) during the
night, and crossed in peace, leaving a few
heads for the ferrymen. ‘The Doctor expect-
ad that Kawawa would some day lose his
head by order of Matiamvo, for his extor-
tionate eonduet towards traders, Doubtless! night ; and all the relatives, dressed in fan-
tais would be the ease as soon as the king! ta-tic eaps, keep up the ceremonies with a
heard of his proceedings, which tended to im-' spirit proportionate to the amount of beer and
poverish the country by keeping trade from | beef provided. When this provision is large,
the interior. the remark is made, ‘‘What'a fine funeral it
Here is a trick of the Chiboque! was!’ A figure of feathers aud beads is
paraded about on this ovcasion. There is a
general belief throughout this part of Africa,
that the souls of the departed mingle with the
living, and partake in some way of the food
which is offered to them. Sacrifices of goats
and fowls are also made to evil spirits, in or-
der to appease them, when people are sick.
When a aman kills another, a sacrifice is made
to lay his ghost.

One of:
Though the travellers have been forewarned, |

picking it up and putting it in’ his basket. '
The owner of the knife has heen watebing, |
and waits till all but the heads of the party
have crossed the stream. He then come: and ;
demands his property ; and when it is given |
up. reqnires a fine for the theft as itis. call: |

1

ed, in which pieces of the manioe are planted,
four feet apart. Beans or ground-nuts may
be sown between the rows; and when these
are reaped, the ground is cleared of weeds.
In about a year the roots are fit for food;
the time varying with the character of the
soil. The plant is esteemed good for three
years. When a root is taken up, a piece of
of the upper stalk is usually putinto the hole,-
and thus a fresh erop is provided for, It
grows to the height of six feet. The roots
are three or four inches in diameter, and from
twelve to eighteen inches in length. The
leaves also are cooked as a vegetable. Jt is
cultivated in all the valleys by the people of
villages, which generally consist of twenty or
thirty huts.

Blood relationships are formed by chiefs
and people. ‘These are friendships of the
most binding character, literally cemented
with blood. ‘Two chicfs clasp each other’s
hands, in which small incisions are made.
A little blood is taken from them and from

‘and he took two of them; the rest were given
‘to influential chiefs. But the principal wife
‘or queen passed to the Jate king’s younger
i brother; according to a custom prevailing
‘among the ancient Jews. However many
i wives the king may have, there is one who en-
Joys the title and position of queen; whose
. hut is called the great house; and whose chil-
{dren inherit the chieftainship. If she dies,
| another is chosen in her place.

On this occasion, the royal widows became
i so soon reconciled to their new let, that the
| people made a song, to the intent that only
ithe men felt the loss of their father Sebituane;
for the women were so soon supplied with
new husbands, that their hearts had not time!
A very pretty!

; to become sore with grief
| compliment to their highnesses!

! When Dr. Livingstone travelled with Ma-
i nenko and other chiefs, the inhabitants used
‘to lend them the roofs of their hutt, which
i arecircular, and can be taken off at pleasure.
‘The owners Iitted them on, anu vrought,

|
i
\
'
1
{
1
'
i
|
i
'

there was no want of food (oxen being
slaughtered daily, sometimes ten at a time,
more than sufficient for the wants of all,)
yet to endure the dancing, rearing, and sing-
ing, the jesting, anecdotes, grambling, quar-
relling, and murdering, of these children of
nature, seemed more like a severe penance
than anything I bad before met with in the
course of my missionary duties. I took
thence a more intense disgust at heathenism
than J had before, and formed a greatly ele-
vated opinion of the latent effects of missions
in the south, among tribes which are reported
to have been as savage asthe Makololo.”
Dr. Livingstone does not, in this category
of their vices, mention slave-dealing, kidnap-
ping, treachery, lying, drankenness, plander-
ing, want of natural affection, cruelty, and
the other evils which proceed from polygamy
and slavery. Captain Barton’s accoant of
the natives of the east, is rather worse than
Dr. Livingstone’s ; for hia attendants evinced
NO =.port.,.gratitnde .or snhmission to his

similar cuts on the stomach, and in the right ‘ them to the place where the travellers wished
cheek or forehead, by means of a stalk of ‘to lodge. Being propped up with stakes,
grass, ‘The blood from each person is put they formed a sufficient shelter for the night.
into a pot of beer, and drunk by his neigh- ‘The numbers of large kind of game here are
bor. During the process, sentences are ut- prodigious. The lionsare as big as donkeys;
tered by their friends, who beat the ground . and their manes make them look larger.
with short clubs. ‘Ehese blood-allies are Eighty-one buffaloes passed slowly in file be-
hound not only to keep the peace themselves, - fore the traveller’s fire one evening, within

: authority, such as the doctor experienced.
' According to the captain, these peoole live in
: rudeness and vice, without a single redeeming
‘quality ; striving only to gratify the lowest
propensities of their nature, in common with
ithe wild heasts of the desert. Dr. Krapfs
: testimony is of the same cbaracter.

i We have said that Linyanti is situated in
: the midst of rivers and marshes, for the sake

ed.

The natives are not all quite black, but

but to warn the other party of any impending | gunshot.

Herds of splendid elands stood

If he took a faney to anything which |

helonged toa stranger, he would order a !
whole villaze to be sold in order to) vbtain
his desire. When a slave-trader vistted him, !

“he took posse
‘a week or two sent some inen to seize upon

ssiun of all his goods ; and after.

. oop i
‘a village, murder the chief, and take away -
the rest of the inhabitants for slaves, with -
-whom the trader was paid. Halfeaste slave-

dealers used therefore to resort to his town,
asa good place for their unhallowed trade.
In the northern parts of Loando the bloody
cusiom of Guinea prevails, in sacrificing a
munher ofthe chief's servants at his death,
in order to acemnpany hin into another world.

' sent was not given to the chief as he desired, ,

Amongst the southern tribes of the Bulonda. ;

this inhuman practice does not exist.
Kenyika and Kanyoka live north of the Ba-
Janda, but Matiamyo does not allow any white

persons to visit them, as his chicf supplies of
“ivory are drawn from their country; so that he |
Ivory and |

retains aimenoply of this article.

“slaves are his principal exports; for which he |

reecives calico, gunpowder, salt, beads, and
_coarse earthenware. ‘The present sovereign
is more mild and just in his government than
his predecessor; his power is absolute.

The Palm.

Let us look at the abode of Katema, a Ba-
-Jonda chief, whose town lies in lat. 11 deg,

THE AFRICANS AT HOME
LY REV. BOM. MACKRAIB, M.A.”

cuaeTey ¥y

Dances Tae Batocn--
ty camel
a Derert of Ai).

A8.0b and Coin

tal van Of Cen,
vyanza Hes about the eqaater,
ter ide of Lake Tanganyika ts
Jougitud nal centre of Afiien,

ern taif of itd central regions have

and tn

sara

the 33°

been pretty well accounted for by recent dis
0G But
ere wall? Here some vacune: in the map
remin tobe: filled ap Buta dttle tn-ight
jute SOLion Of Sie mpane has been given
*y
Hla, who penetrated

ten debates of about

what iecontained in the weet

a: Can bet thie volume has been in the pre
by “oneeue Da Ot
fron tn we:
SOY wide, beracen Zdeg north and 2 dey

Foon bie seenunt

Ma ty Cae?
ent) dotods we deste
that lies

out: ben od hy at {, teperally, that a

cua pangs Of ipgautacts: othe

Peleeah of thet yquotor, ahigh cange ran:
tava for several bundred aedes, extendas
beyond TA deg This billy
inverted by rivers, the eaar-e, of
Moet of this

, jatialited ly

tact Jonsvitude.

cee OM ae

not fasly descr hed,

are

erates Condets of vaet fore

. ‘ : :
hieeeride Totes, Woo Wee: ae cnt Wor vath
henets aod

riptde woh seria to claim por
'

tach obser, and with wild venue

meds ian
af the:

64. “Poe people are very rude and
Jemornbaed, given to witeheralt aud cholas
ay Ca

Sern of the Innerne-! tribes visited by Du
Chath. and others. tying beyond his field of
ehterpiee. are addieted treenunthalicin, feat

toon the bade: cfencinies tpouwh not of
Sree
diving abeut the cqustor are unusually de
sated th

,

Pfenee a appears that the Afriean:
grad: J oan Ea probably the Aipeds through
the «whole breadth of the continent,

ne gyfest

Cort loenjaies of this district

ehh yonibas Chie stovuda gnanal, of
the tnemtey faunly approuehes pearer to the
fetes epeer in its for and habits than
thie « ne a coping ontany, orang other
weaver vith whiel we ae pequainted s Tut
etalongly differs in the formation of the
A fall yiaan goritls fn ab feet

fect hush, very mascaloraod etrong, far cus-
piscine the strength of oni 5 no Chat at ecu

firsts mie

waa tee of three or fuur inches diameter
Sts fone are Large
and Hey, ite arm deung, We chest mnple, ite
Jege strony Stts envered with hair, whieh
ie Junge in the female than inthe side 5 and
hus nn tall,

with the greutest cuss,

Ho fives tn euver, and feed. on
veyrtable produce, nol culiny fleshy af wny
dexriplion. vi ible
He ite feroriods Joules, expeenmily in ite large
ane deap eye alte; ond it exnot be tamed
Vie yortlas destroy all other aoinmials in the
weniity of thei habitat, cefueing to fare

fie innate MVNO Ge Be

friend y iiteressarce with any ather erenture
Vioe ty the Iueksess tunter who iaiisses: his
tins, or fails ty disable wo yorlla ywhiels fie ts
pening ifort would ieetantly ponner upon
Bi wrench dis nacket from hits hinds, aud
Nand coat inns with dis wn weapon
Yet this creature ta onde vad of everything

,

PENTE

“Dies fooid Niele of Ose taae te Phe Alaa nt Moni
Penge Vapalen fc iiplion if Aleiea wud Wi Afadeaie era
Nevced tron tha Aereuule ed Alen Traveliete lreas Ve
Die oh Benge Bury Uy ta Meee Vay Wy he tee

and thirty women, who were said to be his
wives, close behind him.
the people were sqnatay in a semicirele, at!
a distance of fifty yards.
own heal uvin stationed ata litle distance
in front ;
canis forward as his counsellors.
then related the stranger's history; and Kae

ren placed sixteen large ba-kets of meal be- :
fore hin, halfa dozen fowls, and a‘dozen ewes;
expres dag his regret that he hid slept Inn
ary, as he did not wieh any stranger tosufPer
want in his town,
ant cook and eat, and you will then be ima!
fit state

will ive

edietiiel, and ave glial te pay ouny
“jeotection or dihaty of tinedt

35min. 49 see. 8., and long, 22 deg, 27 min.
EL tis astraggling village of huts, rather
than atewn. Dr. Livingstone had a formal
} presentation to Kater.

rr er te

ak as fone, .
Wg UN weve we LUTOHE, Wy ayout three

apa araund,« |

{
The main body of |

Sach party lied its :

who when beckoned by the chief,
Intense :

?

He added: “Ga home, |
|

speak tome, atan audience 1:

wt tommorrow,
iderafe contact was shown by a!
it forty yearsold, eld ina brown !

This ce
tall Hath, tae

cout with adden band down the sleeves,
and y helinet of bends cd) feathers,

PAVE
Heearriedd a dace tail made of the eaudal
extremities of wna’, having elvums attached

fodt, whieh he waved infront of limeelf, dur

ine the andience Efe was ina good humor

and dauehel ined,
Next shay hes aldies sed hits priests in the:
aia the Moone |

fell swine poceb sof werent

ordy Katema, the fellow of Matianiyo.
These ine one i thie country equal to
Mativuve and one. have always lived
here, gud iny forefathers ton. There is the
howe ia owiiel: ang forefathers lived. You
found io fein halle near the place where |

Fonever dalhed any of

FOU are encannped,

the traders they all come tone. foam the
great Moene Kate of whan you have
head ”

Upon being asked what he woukl dike to!
he brought for him from Loande, be prudent: |
Ig eaid that anything frou the white people :
would de aeeeptable, and be would receive
auything thankfully 5 dat the eat whiel he,
then WOPt Ws old, and he writ like anoth

er fhe yess pleased with the iden of milk
weeows, whieh wat anew thing too hin
Ie hed a herd af about thitty fine animals,

Tut they were quite wills and: when one wa
wanted for el uehter, it bad te be whet flee a
haffile
Vs
after hie jouiney

atin farmtdied paides.
Living -tone, on reviniting this ehiel
to the

cloak af ged Daize qongmenteds wath pole

Cod, paree hana
fin
el go eatton pobe, dead, ne icon spoon, and
woitmall ti of geunpoweler s when der wae
really pleased: vath bie presen
i the ilivuddeass of dite
ia lesen, itis the mratasl hipuilive mode oloae

Ou depart
tng he aneunted on
Hie, "The datter was adendor nan: where
ne the chief was ci feet high, and ntont in:
proportion jee That it wies only euaton whiel |
cabled the

SW we

Lenser to ructaas bie foal,

wie whether iopertiat elief in
fis villares, te Dither thi gest

cons led af forty or fitiy strne

thie dastaget
of WBotetna,
petra tits 5 boat he Lied ne ferey over the Wrst,
Ly neni of whieh he exteurted a hepyy table
ute from all whe could afford te jury "he
Huiporition whieh be thats practiced wpe fan

dent by all the Cubes near (he yostern ean,

ryreat barter te the exchange of ineeehan
thie > Dat the stives are anabde or nwa
tye Vee isece: the evihy of them chart siphted pul
ivy, The Chihoqua deminds puyrent Coin
every one whe pisses threugh thew esuntey
This Danefal enetom his daabtlass arisen
Uhroagl the wlave trade 5 tune the slave deal
ere aie quite at Chianerey of the ebiedis of the
for
Siwiwie,

iets

The!

{

|
|
{
|

Ie found hit sit- |
ta ’ .

of the Iutter had ineautiously ane ame suaced | wild cattle.
thaennnleae inotlda tha PV
ty they were surround
an affray, they would have become the first!
victims.
ceed by force, the natives tried a ruse.
said, “You come among usin a new way, |
and say you are quite friendly ; how ean we

know it, unless you give us some of your,
food, and you take some of ours?
vive us an ox, we will give you whatever you
may wish, and then we shall be friends?’
This was avreed to,
and food demanded in return,
jug, the chief sential very sumll basket of |
meal, and two or three pounds of Che flesh of |
the shinehtered ox!
help liuehing aut heing SO easily duped.

There is no remedy but to give hin!
many incline to bronze, and others are much |
lighter. Heat alone does not produce a deep
black, but heat with moisture. “Wherever
we find people who have continued for ages
in a hot, humid district, they are deep black;
but to this apparent law there are exceptions,
caused by the migrations of both tribes and
individuals. The Makololo, for instance,
among the tribes of the humid central basin,
appear of a sickly sallow hue. The Batoka,
who live ina elevated region, are, when seen
in company with the Batoka ofthe rivers, so
much lighter in color, that they might be
taken for another tribe; but their language,
and the marked eustem of knocking out the
unper front teeth, leaves no room tor doubt
that they are one people,”

Amongst the inhabitants of Katema there
is a love for singing-hirds. They keep a
kind of canary in cages because of the sweet-
ness of their song. They — ve also tame
pigeons. Singing-birds abe Lin some of
the woods, and make a me noize in’ the

what he asks. For it is customary that the ;
finder of anything should show it to his chief, |
and offer it ta him; so that the latter ny:
restore it to the owner if sought. for. When
practising this deception, the Chiboque took |
care to keep on their own side of the stream;
and “it was but rarely we could get a head-
mun so witless as to cross a river with us, !
and remain on the oppsite bank in a conveni-!
ent position to be seized as a hostage, in case |
of my being caught.”’ ;
On another occasion, when as large a pre-|

he surrounded the encampment with armed |
men, determined to plunder it of everything.
When expostulated with, he said that ope of |
the party had, in spitting near the fire, allow. |
ed a small quautity of saliva to fallon the}
leg of one of his men; and this “auilt” must :
be washed away by the tine of a man, an ox, |
oragun. ‘The person accused of this great ;
offence acknowledged that he had accidental. |
ly lot a litde saliva fall as described, but that
he had given the Chihoque -a piece of meat; morning and evening. Thi orms a contrast
just before it happened, and had wiped it off with the northern tropic Some sing as
immediately. ‘f'o save disputes, the Doctor | loudly as our thrushes, a. the king-hunter
eave the injurcd man a shirt, with which he; (//aleyon Senegatensis) sakes a elexr whir-
was not satisfied. A few beads were added; ! ring sound, like that ofa —“iatle with a pea
but as usual, the more that was given the; in it.
higher their demands rose. The Balonda are fond
The travelling party were really more than | immense districts of fine ©
amatch for their assailants + and the chiefs! and the verv herh >?

wriculture ; but
are lying waste;
Lo

hase

>t
ntre Wee vlyenn sen | taeda of They also «

3 so that in case of | With Hels Wee Ypeltio: wade Matta brui-
sed leaves of a shrub » ..ch ‘poison’? the fin-
ny tribe.

Before leaving these Balonea, let us pay :
visit to Shinte, a noted chie” dwelling near, cut
the Leeba, a little south of the district which |
we have now described, Dr. Livingstone
was accompanied to this town by a nieco of
the chiel’s a tall Amazonian lady, named Ma-
venko. ‘This Amazon was a regular terma-
gant, wonld have everything done her own
way, and thought she could “do anything. fer

thes

Finding that they could not sue- |
They

me

ley

If you

An ox was) presented,
In the even-

The travellers could not

eH)

the Doctor himself) obey. Putting her hand |

structure and habits.

retire all the people are engaged in eatehing, |

other large animals also abound; with im-

of the Makololo, built: on a mound, like oth-

She was an accomplished scold and orator, ito wives of Sebitnane.
and not only managed her own husband and j come to the jnnetion of the Chobe with the
peaple, but made the Daetor’s party, and Zamberi, in abont U7 b-2 dew. of 8. dat. and

danger. ‘The most valuable things which — within two hundred yards of the party, with-: of security. It is, indeed, almost unap-

‘they possess are mutually exchanged as pre- out exhibiting any fear of them. In most. proachable from some quarters. The banks

sents. Amongst the common people, the — districts of the Zambesi, antclopes and small-' of the streams are mostly marsh land, cov-
blood-tic is more casily formed ; since a litte er game are in profuse abundance; so that no: ered with thick grass and reeds six or eight

blood squirting from an artery, whilst Dr.

Livingstone performed an operation upon a |

woman’s arm, constituted him her blood-rela-
tion. She considered herself bound to cook
victuals for him any time that he might pass
that way.
tom, his lancet might perhaps have been of
some service during his wanderings.

Sailing down the Leeba, we arrive at the
place where it joins the Lecambye or Zambe-
si, nearly in li deg. S. lat. The chief of

Tad he sooner known this cus- ;

, Sportsman need want food.

We must leave the Makololo, with a de-:
scription of one of their dances. Their ex-:
citement is generally shown and worked off.
a dancing and singing. In the dance, the;
nen stand nearly naked in a circle, holding ;
i clubs or small hbattle-axes. Each roars at;
i the loudest pitch of his voice; whilst they:
: simultaneously lift one leg, stamptwice with;
‘it heavily, and lifting the other, give one|
; stamp with it. They also throw their arms;

feet high. There is also a serrated grass
which at certain angles cuts like a razor, and
clumps of papyrus, like miniature palms, an
inch and a half in diameter. The climbing
convolvolus; with stalks as strong as whip-
cord. binds all these reeds and grasses into 4
thick mass. The islands and dry places are
beset with brambles.

In penetrating to the south, the land is
found to be flat and marshy, as far as the
lake Ngami; after which it soon becomes des-

the Barotse lives five days’ journey cast of | and head about in all directions. The noise ert. A great annoyance in these districts

this junction. ‘The country here is overflow-
ed during one part of the year ; but it teens
with animal life, and might as casily support
inillions of men as it now does thousanils.
Flocks of green pigeons are here met with;
and many other interesting species of the
feathered tribe. Here isthe beautiful frogon,
with bright searlet breast and black back,
uttering a peculiar note, like that said to have
been uttered by Memnon, which resembled
the tuning of a lyre. Iu the quiet districts of
the river, we find the /d’s redigiosa. large
flocks of the white pelican, clouds ofa black
shell-cating bird, plovers, snipes, curlews and
herons, ardetta, seissor-hills, spoonbills, the

ta Siew

ees ee gy
wutiful; others are very curious in’ their

Vish are so numerous, that when the waters

ting up, aud drying the mullets: that have j manners. In away contrary to the Balonda,
been lefton the soil, ‘The hippopotamus and | the women are better dressed, whilst the men

nse mimbers of insects. Indeed, the val- |
teems with animal life. i
Lower down, Lebonta is the frontier town
villages in the valley. Lebonta helongs to
Farther down, we

[-2 dew, of Klong. A little way up the

' faet
will give us an ox for dancing for him.”

Makoloto, do not differ much trom them in

igo about quite naked, without the smallest
; sense of shame.
is to throw themselves on their back and roll
on the ground, slapping the outside of their) its notable enemy, the black soldier ant.
which is met with in these districts. They

i thighs, ins token of a welcome.
are about half an inch in length, and march

lig chief Monze rolled in this manner before
his visitor, to the unspeakable disgust of the; three or four abreast.
“Tatter.
This tribe have the singular custom of} troops, but bear no burdens,
knocking out their upper trout teeth : thes a litle earth or water on their path, they

is tremendous, and the clouds of dust whieh |
rise from their feet fillthe air. ‘If the scene :
were witnessed in a lunatic asylum, it would ;
be nothing out of the way, and quite appro- |
priate even, as a means of letting off the ex- |
cessive excitement of the brain; but here
grey-headed men joined in the performance
with as much zest as others whose youth
might be an excuse for making the perspira-
tion stream off their bodies with the exer-
tion.” The women stand by, clapping their
hands ; but occasionally one advances into
the circle composed of a hundred men, makes

a few movements, and then retires. Poor! ;
things! they do not like to be left altogether {+ af tha mmseles. and sematimes wir

isthe tsetse, or Glossina morsitans, an
insect which attacks cattle, horses, and dogs;
but does not here afilict men or wild beasts.
A whole team of oxen are sometimes destr>y-
ed by them; and the traveller may be let
helpless with his caravan. The tsetse live in
detined localities, one bank of a river being
infested with them, whilst the opposite bank
may be free. They inject a subide poison
with their sting, from which a slight irrita-
tion soon follows, though net so much as that
produced by the gat-fy. But in a few days.
the bitten animal is affected as if it had an

influenza; emaciation ensues, with a faccidi-
. Ruri:

we wee wh RAN Rote te eee

- .-- stl
"and staggering jand at last purging or

; ; . . . we nena dene fe apten al acpeege ene
» but said, ‘Tt is very nice. and Sekeletu ‘that the blood has been vitiated. “A singular
| ciroumstance is that calves are not affected by

‘The Batoka. who live to the east of the} the testes so long as they are sucking ; altho"

Their mode of salutation
of

Even the;

j lea

i
dog

white ant, whie
ern Jatitades, and raises the mound of its
dwelling to a height of thirty feet. on the wp

es ted on milk perish like the cattle.
place we have mentioned the
1 also abounds in these south-

In a former

which trees sometimes grow. It bas also

They follow their
ders, which, like officers, guide their
It you throw

- Of intelligence,

All the tribes bordering upon the Parte |
tatese settlements on the coasts of Lower |

Guinea appear tobe ties extortionate to!

strangers, sous greatly to hinder friendly aud
commmeretal with the interior. |

. + . . . |
Otherwise, the Inhabitants of Conse and its,

netbborhood are bor Trem betne an aninter: |

intercourse

esting people, and are ly no ieans devoid
This from the
conduet aud character of these whe are in

is manifest

cluded within the bowids of dhe Portuese!

feovermment.

The Balonda men wear a girdle round (heir
Joins, to whieh a small spon of soft skin ts
attached Doth in froutamd behind. Phe we
men have nothing that can be eatled clothing
Yet tho irs, indiffrent to their own uadity,
Tanghedl atthe Makelolo men who bad noe
hack: apron

Stranve to say, these naked barbarians are

very punetifion din some of their manners; bat
this probably arises from superstiious fears,
Tf thet own fire pros ont. they wilh not fight
froma nembber's, They pave us food,
Bat workd not partake of it when we fia
cooked its nor would they eat thei food in
our preeence, When it was eouked, they re-
tived inte a wool and eat thet poreidyes then
lb nto ap aid elapped their hands, and
prated Pntemese them elie? fora’? An
oll amin, who had heen the companion af |
nat thus}
needs deedide the taaveller whoa ho was visit
Herefused with seorn, eying s Te
ht never cat on the yaound cluriae the tate

Matinisvo, woet nehed te down on

wae,

hud rere, aml Ties wears ted footie bo devrade |
Hine ney?
Valf Durned ley Phe would aot (oud
cooled avert teat wies offered iii, but woodle

Yet die acenptod ren! Oued

DOPEEeT

take it at home,
The
Hpot which lia been visited by death,

inn
Vhey
a thal portent

Salona ee ufvaid Gooremain

pera Prot ther plane;

ible,

villages gre: bape
luewhiy,
neat in offering
Perverts,
the dirk: off trees,
sent Bey pte menuients ; whilst eller ips
al stall piece Of ion root or eng ef mize
are placed an the branches Ufeapes of stiedas
Tae oideo teade, after Che omuner of
added fo hy every pacsanyer,
Cabwnye, the mont ueetherty villages that

Mthey retuen te the
Pista pray tothe dese ar pre
Die the dele recesses uf! the

you taiht fad Tumi faeces enrved in
wfter the mime of Che an

CHIE,

fries Vieroets yvited its Woies depen, fron in Ht) loys
OE ad A dat med lew Obani, longs
ft eomednta off bout dyer lienabeedd fects, nied
tenon twelve aqure et Hinde oof poles
mod pain, whieh hifoug do fait eaate Port
patonn traders, Safosaiation wad hove abtaie-
eH tatthe tows of Matinnye fies about a
Virndeod nud thisty aniles i NOE.

people from Mal doaesibed it as thirty twe

'
Sone

bo.
i stst,

ywin, ata prtce Chat few of the men could keep

Pinedo Chat they were coming.

cerowsed with a baneh oof poo feathers

ou his shoulder, when he was resolved to go | Chobe is Linyanti, the eapital ef the Mako-
contrary to her will, she said, with a mother: | lolo. King Sekeletu was the warm friend of
ly look, “Now. my little mon, just de asthe) Dr. Livingstane, furthered all the objects of
rest have done’? She marched forward with | his undertaking to the utmost of his ability,
the party, accompanied by her husband and {and generously supplied his wants,

drummer. ‘Phe former was merely neon: linyanti contains about TOO0 people. Tt
venient companion 5 the latter thamped on lis built in the midst of rivers and marshes,
his instrament tll rain compelled him to de- | tor the sake of security; but this venders it
Manenko walked oon, in the pouring Fanhealthy, ‘The people are of a light-brown-
jish yellow color, amd have asiekly hue com
up with, When asked why she dit not put
anelothes (lor sho did not) trouble herself
with any garment) during the rain; she said
thal it was not proper for aehief to appear

The Mecdkololo tidies have the ine of the halt)
east; and in opposition to the: judsment of

;
7
Fthe Nevrous of tho north, they associate tiir-

itaninate. The people all) declired, Mae j Hess of skin with beauty. They drink laree

nenke isa soldier.’ Jmantities of doosa, whieh is eonsitered im:
ftritions, and ealeulated to give chat plans
hess of form which is highly esteemed. They

ent their woolly hair quite short, and anoint

This Amazon’ according to tho eustom of
the country, sent forward a message to ber
She even went

Fpared with their alive tinted neighbors, The;
Pot ducks.”

want of which gives them an unconth ap;

lose their way, as they seem to follow by s

pearanee, and makes their tingh hideous. | kind of scent. They will not erss over the
This tolly has become a standing jest for the | obstacle however small, but will wheel round

Makololo.

peastieard, pierce the upper lip, and gradually |
enlarge che orifice until they can inserta shell. | :
The lip then appears drawn out) beyond the } sting whieh makes then: insensible, and then

'

“live tirther east, on che south of che Zambesi,
Pte not diffe greatly in their tatives and
Syustoms front their western neithbors ; aud
the same may be said of other cibes dwelling
erearer to the Portuguese settlements,
‘these people, it may be remarked, ave addict:

. . ' or .
toa village to bey corn for her puest, cround | themselves plontiftully with butler, to make |

it for hii with herown hands, and brought tthe skin shine. ‘Chetry dress is a) simple
Wowith ana which said, ol knew bew tof kilCofseft hide, reaching tothe knees. They
noiiige, don’t Ee" Shinte despatehed on have also a skinsmantle for (all dress; sud
messenver to bid the purty weleome, aceon: Formament themselves with armlets and ank-
panying bis message with two lire hastets {lets of brass and ivery, se thick aud heavy
of manioe and six dried fishes, Fas ofton to blister the skin, | Bat these things

Shinte’s town is cosbowered in banauas and pare Cashionatle! — Neetlaees ave
other Crees with larpe leaves, The dreete Boas of tight green and pink being the most
are stiaipht; tho buts have square walks with | ester, such colors are of high juice.
round roofs, erected in courts: surrounded | "These women lave much better ideas of
with leafy foneos, Ea seme of the courts, Cot beauty and comeltinesss dim their northern
Taceo is planted, or agar eane, and bangnas. psisters in Born and its vieinity. ‘Phe latter
Trees of the Mees Aadfed aflord a peatetul | tike dhe flac uose, thiek lips, crisp hair, and
shade te the inmates. Some af the people bhiek color, which themselves: poses But
are very chork dealer, some an lighter; seme cthe Miatoloto batios prefer vot onty a light
have the Negro thiel lips, vlonpated liead, Pealor, but a proper syunnedry of features.
wid flat ones; bat others have well shaped
hewds, and pood- looking fees,

Tho chief recoived hin puesta, sittings un
theca bonyan tree, ona nel af throne caver
cl with aw leopards nin, The was clothed |
ine kilt of seurtet haize edped with green,
webieheekod jneket, Strings af lirge boas
weag miepetutod vowel daise nied, aul tne
fobs wore adorned with bracelota and
Jets of copper and iven,
helmet of bonds neatly woven together, ane

also used,

On tie hand wae a

Close do Iineant three lade with dary heaves
af arrews aver thoir nbowldors  Bedstad hia
at bout a hanedrad worn odode in red
haize | hi chief with boty in front, wearing
wecurions cod eap. "Pho diflivent aeetions of
of the tribe eame forward, the headin of
cach icing obobinnes hy rapping, hin ahent
and aro with ashes, hon dallowed eupen
dvips, npmrecstecmmmnlciig, clapping ot tnds by!
the Indies, ase, Ro. Ui the intorhaden of
Hine npeeohod, (ho tadlow amg plaintive  dit-
thon, Mors Shadntes conte, ade dt all the
wot, When nape dis Wppraved of, Chin
be rdpaillod by olapplag at haat, in whieh
the ohivt juias,

qn also, came atone “te tinve a quint pace
at bisown forties onve when he thonght |
witailoep. Ader twisting his menth about
iW Varios direetions, he remmrked to hinseld,
Pooplo cay Lam ugly, and bow very ugly |
min indeed. Pho iatives are sharp enough
Fin poresiving the dafvetcat’ others, and piv:
tp nivtavamons accordingly ¢ mew Chey hid an
opportunity for the Giat tine ef seeing thom
flyers.

Soholote wan in G8oi a young num, about
nightoon years old, af tho dark yatlow volar
of whieh th Makelolo ave nea prom, and
nbotit five teat secon dnehis in bedght. Ad

: duces efleets Like Che opianeesting of Chins ;
oand whieh is capable of exciting them toa
“state of trengy, when they partake of it

Esertbedt by Stlve Porto asa hirge Cowan, with

|

“They came freqently and asted for the | despotic, the laws are written in blood, and

lookingegkin mut the vewarks they nade. - | haan saerifiees ave frequent,
while Twas ongaged in reading, and appar | Silve Porto's aveount of these people
ently not attending to thom on Girst seeme (shows that thoy resemble the tribes deseribed
themselves therein, were amusingly ridieu- j by Livingstone and) Barton, They are bat
fon. Es thatane? What bis month Ehavel Eharons, indolent and vieious,  theugl: some
Myooenrs are ons bi as pumphin loaves.’ | eines hospitable, They seeut to Kirow: ue
Hhave no chin at ath’ L would have been | distinetions of virtue ail view, and never to
arn pret. bat um spoiled by dose high eheok ! think of right and wrong, xcept in refurence
wanes” lt Preseat conseqieneos thom ae breach of
Son, how my head sheets up in the | their own ooustoms. Though dheie dite ts
meiblel  Phoy haaghed fal at their own spot in se simple away, Caveonding to me
eviiehas and jokes upon thoneelves. 4 Pine,” without cho prevaloned of artiticial

} watered country, inhabited by the Basenga

perpendicular of the nose, and gives them a
moist, ungainly aspect. There is ne account
ing tor fashion 2 Sekwelu remarked, ¢These
women want to make their mouths like those

The Metabele, rivals of the Makololo, whe

All

ed to smoking somatic weed, whieh pro

lgely, as they generally do before going inte
battle.
North of che Zambest isa hilly and well

and Rabisa or Movisa, who are much mixed
up owith Balonda amd neighboring tibes,
Reyoud them is Cazembe, whieh we) have al:
ready mentioned as lying te the sont of dre
lake district. Uts capital, Tawenda, ts) de

wile streets aud spactous markets 5 having in
the contre a reyal palace containing a baron
of STO women, The povernment is mest

wants and Tisueies sand: though theiy land
toons with abundances, se ae to supply all
thety need with a small dogree at liber; they
are fay Crom oujuying happiness and ease,
Our readers mitt not aU pps that a state
ef native” isn Madate at bling? neconting ta
the theory of seme modern philosophers,
One who went aniongst che Addons tor choir
good, whore pationeo and good native have
rotten beet exceeded, whe Gaydit chen
many neat things, aud whe was vendy te
take al atlowanvos fae che ignovanee and
ridomost of barbarian lif, sama up his ae
coud of dion tie these mouratiat words:

The women of Maravia, farther | till they recover their track. The white ants

are greatly afraid of them. The black lead:
evs hold their vietims one by one, inflicting 8

toss them to one side, where they are seized
and carried off by the troopers. They deo
vot enslave the white ants, as sume bave
thought, bat they eat them; as may by seen
by a lide heap of hard heads and legs near
tho barracks of the soldier ants. Were it
not for this relenthss fee, the white ants
would overrun the country,

Southward, wo pass by large salt-pans,
aud tinally arrive amongst the Bushwen,
Families of these men are found iv marshy
districts, where they are aul of stature anc
dark in-color But the Bushmen of the
Kalahari are short and of a light yellow com:
ploxion, They awam about this desert
rion, living in rude huts of hasty couse
tion, and subsisting prineipally upon the
game which they tke ia fries They
uover cultivate the sail, ner rear any animals
oxcopt dogs: but theiy women gather rots
and other traits of natural growth,

Without suck vegetables, tho Bashmen
could scarcely subsist: for being esculent,
they furnish them with drink as well as meat,
The greater portion: of this desert is very
mid; ao that deci part ot the year the griss
will eraniblo inte powder in your: hand,
There is stoh a sameness in dhe ehnups of
bushes whieh grow here, that iC regitins a
well practised ayo to distinguish them, so as
ty recognise the locality, and be ste of dae
volling in the right diveetion. But these
childvon of the soi) know everything that be
longs (in aud oan detect the sghtest dit
ference in the appearance of a tree. ‘Through
log praction ta hunting, they are so well
awqudated with the habits of tho wild beasts,
that they can fallow and tack chem ent ia
their migrations,

Tn passing choough this deeary ooty,
vou ary atten ata les for watery bat your
Vushman guides will Cell yor where to dig in
the sand. and you will soon ebtain a stall
supply, They will also point out phnts
from whieh you may obtain vofhahing moist
wie. Hore isa sinall stalk with linear loaves |
Ut vou dig down a Wot ar (vet anda hall)
vou will dad as tuber as large asa childs
head, Gled with thid Hke al young: turnip,
Another oreepor tres several roots af soll
larger size ranged in the otreumforence of a
einelo about a yard tem the stem. The na.
tives strike the ground with stones, and know
by the peertiag somnd when tubers any tobe
find botew. ‘The watermelon, Okexwus

afer abounds in some phivos, and is vaguely

Wiebe WOR hula ott Shard ape ie Tee . . . ‘ * ad ‘ . . ' . oy ‘ , 1 . ‘ ‘
thera Whe Vultee Vongints, ae velia was otherwise Ieawlly Wa, Hos sanded | tlaya’ Jouney, an alin two battered wil Manioo bs hove regarded na the stad! of paording bo the easton: of the tribe, he hoon “Though all, inehuling the ehiet) were us) doveurwd, vot ouly by man, but hy all kinds
vlovel , ’ . \ . ares ' : sot te : . poy ‘ ’ . , ‘ . woe ‘
vole bath lid hut De Laivsnyatene’s piety hid teen | twenty ites NNW. of Cabungo : which Hite. Tehronsily oudtivated,  Bedheare form peronor of bie fathora wives uChbe death > Find and attentive (ome ad posible: and of wild beasts,
‘aera aracrerer on

j
|
|

eee

rey WL

——- ane be ne

The savage manner in whieh the Bushmen
live, like mere animals preving upen their
fellows. seems to have produced an unsightly
dezradation ef their physical system. This
is inereased by the heat and thirst of the
desert in which they reve. Their body is
small, lean, shrivelled up.—ungainly speci-
mens of human nature, of all the prerogatives
of whieh they might scem to be destitute. |
Other ereatures besides man possess cunning
and sagaecity in’ hunting and foraging, to,
whieh all the Bushman’s faculties of body and ,
mind are now limited. But his use of pois:
oned arrows, his quickness in deception, and
the knowledge which he possesses of the
habits of other animals, display a power of |
intelligence which might be exereised on the
usofal arts of life. _ tatere, that Secretary Stanton was about as-

2 The Bakalabari Share the desert wih /stuning the pesition belonging to him as the
Bushmen ; but they live rere as exiles rath- ‘head of the War Department, and that Gen.
er than aborigines. They practise agricul] 0"
ture and rear domestic animals. They are a| MeClellan would be assigned to the com-

timid race, have thin limbs, and large pro- | mand of the Potemae Division of the army.

——A few days sinee it: was announeed

on the authority of some Washington qutd-

Wan [reas.—The expedition for the Ton-|
nessee and Cumberland Rivers, designed to!
make a demonstration against Morts Uenry
and Donelson, consisted of a foree of not less
than 20,000 men.

Thirteen vessels of the Mortar Fleet, of:

Mr. Dunlop gave as his authority, Col.
Logan, Why, we wonld ask, was sucha
breach of duty, such acase of insubordination
tolorated for a moment: hy the officers, aud
why. he having suflvved it to go unrebuked,
or unehastised, was he longer suflered to

We know not what The re-

have set sail from New York.

hold a commission ? Aa ' '
maining portion will soon leave,

reviments cre referred to, thal so ignomini-

trnssipn Exprorriox.--By the latest
intelligence this expedition was making
nn attack on Roanoke Island. A_ cor:
respondent of the New York Post states that
the rebels are fully booked up as to all of
our contemplated — movements. “While
every correspondent attached to the ex-
pedition has carefully refrained from sending
information North, and while the officers
were entirely ignorant of the programme, it
is known eyen to the drum-heys in the rebel
reviments! And they have known it for a
fortnight past... .. It is impossible
that the rebels should have known so cor-
reetly the designs of this expedition, unless

ously disgraced themselves ; but sure are we
that Col, Farnsworth’s eavalry will net be
found among them. One of their number
writes, “there is not. al shive-cateher among
the twelve hundred ; nor aman of them but
is in favor of confiscating the slaves of the
traitors, as a war measure, ‘The whole regi-
ment consists of straight Union men, who
have no ‘bowels of eampassion’ for rebels,
yy

nor adoration for the “divine institution.’ §

aoe -

——Our cause hevins to look more cheer-

{
which Capt. Porter is to have commant, |

truding abdomens. For satety’s sake they
often choose their residence at a distance

This we deemed cheering intelligence, and

; still trust may yet prove true ; believing that

From water ; and hide their supplies by fill: : . te
a up the pits and even i kone a fire over | there is an urgent need of a man of his sup-
° , a . oe : 3. ayav nf eharactoer. fixe ss af
them. ‘The women draw the water with long : posed energy of character, fixedness of pur
reeds, by means of suction. An enemy | pose. resoluteness and promptitude of action,
coming to one of their villages, can pind NO! to throw off the visinertia which has para-
ater ; it will be specdily supphed toa: ,,, cure. ineffee-
Reena: ene hands of their oniaies have lyzed, or rendered in great measure ineflee
me . ee : ’ “oe i apy oO ‘ements
been Jost or led astray in this thirsty region, itive, Governmental movements. ;
We now have another rumor from Wash-

ing, From) Washington comes the intel-
ligenee, that the President has decided for
the future to be in reality, what, heretofore
he has only been nominally, Commander-in-
Chief; and that. his orders will be hereafter
issucd throngh the War Department. We
trust among the carliest: movements, will be
the clearing of the Potumae River, the sue.
cessful interruption of the navigation of |

and have perished from drought.

The desert haz thus proved a place of ington, namely: that Gen. McClellan, not
refuge to many tribes when overrun by pow My, Stanton. is about, taking the initiative
erful foes, who have vainly endeavored to:

arsue them here. or have dene so to their ! ; °
en destruction istart anew war policy. We are told that

We need seareely sav that j
the Bakalahari are as untutored as the Bush- } the General will turn over temporarily to the

men that is. as whally as hnomoen nature ¢:
be. ‘reserving to himself only the direction and

step to organize a new state of affairs, and

' serious inveonvenience and dire disgrace to
; §

i us, and the suitable protection, and placing
1

i

an! Seeretary, the control of the entire army. |

which by the enemy has been too longa

in successful operation the Ohiv and Siissis-
| sippi Railroad, the interruption of which has
threatened materially to effect the markets,
by the keeping back of large quantities of

they had received the information from those
who had access to the offical sourees.””
The Baltimore Clipper, in’ an extra, an-
nounces that Roanoke Island was captured
after three days fighting. ‘Lhe ony obstacles
to interfere with a march upon Norfolk by the
Union forces, we are told, are swamps,
marshes, and sickness.
Later news brings the cheering intelligence
of the complete success of the expedition at
Roanoke Island. It was taken possession of
and Com. Lyneh’s ficet entirely destroyed.
Elizabeth City was attacked on Sunday and
evacuated by the inhabitants, being previous-
ly burned, but whether by our shells or the
inhabitants is not known. News of this de-
feat reached Norfolk Sunday, and caused
great excitement. ‘The rebel force on_the
Island was about 3,000 fighting men. Gen.

Coxtrananns.—There are now at Fortress
Monroe about 5,000 persons, who were
formerly held in bondage; two-thirds of
theso are able-bodied men, now laboring for
Government at $10 per month each; of
which sum the laborer receives in cash fifty
cents weekly ; the balance being reserved by
Government as a contingent fund for various
purposes, such as keeping himself and family
clothed, fed, &e.

Contrabands at Williamsport, Md., say
that all the able-hodied colored men are
being taken to Richmont, Va., to be formed
into regiments, and armed for the defence of
that city.

About a dozen contrabands recently
reached Newport News from Rebeldom, of
whom two have been made one by the Chap-
lain of the 29th Regiment. Forty-six human
beings, claimed as belonging to the estate of
J. D. Franklin, who died worth $700,000
to 3800,000, were sold at Morristown, Tenn.,
on the 2ist ult. Aamong them three girls,
i two of the age of seventeen, and one fifteen
years, brought each $1,500; one girl thir-
teen years of age was sold for $1,800, and
some twelve years old, $1,100.

The Philadelphia Inquirer, learns by a
gentleman from New Orleans, that there
have been numerous slave conspiracies and
insurrections in various parts of the South,
and that many of the conspirators have been
hung. Great apprehensions prevail among
the reflecting and intelligent, as to slave:
rising. A considerable number of slaves
have escaped to the Union Fleet and to Ship
[sland
The Norfolk (Va.) Day Book publishes a
complaint of the recent escape of slaves from
that city, valued at $20,000.

agency of secret societies there established,
who, in open day, hold weekly meetings.

ed independent of us. We are to sail to-
gether on this voyage of life.

This is but an imperfect sketch of the
eloquent lecture, which was frequently warm-
ly applanded.

' At’ the close of the lecture, Mr. J. 8.
Smith, inquired of Mr. Davis, whether he
was under any obligation to return hack to

The Emperor Napoleon, did not, (as it
was anticipated he would.) announce at the
opening of the French Chambers his resolu-
ticn to abolish the Federal blockale. He
wishes first to secure the moral ectiperation
of Kueland.

Brigadier Gen. Stone has been sent. to
Fort Lafayette, under arrest, charged. with
mishehavior at the battle of Ball’s Bloff;| Fortress Monroe,—who stated that he was,
holding correspondence with the enemy be- : and should do so on account of his own
fore and since the battle, receiving visita in his ‘family and the other contrabands detained
camp from rebel officers; treacherously suf-' there. Mr. Remond hoped that Mr. Davis
fering the enemy to erect military works, | would not allow himself to be carried abont
since the battle, under his guns without moles: | by the gentleman who he accompanied for
tution ; treachcrausly designing to expose his | exhibition.

force to capture and destruction by the; Robert Morris, Esq., spoke vehemently
enemy, under pretence of orders for a move-: against slaves begging money to pur-
ment from the commanding General, which | chase their freedom, and against their pnr-
had not heen given. 'chasing it at all. He would not give a mill
Gen. Sigel, announces through the Michi- | for any such purpose.

gan Journal, that he has resigned his com-} Dr. J. B. Smith strongly opposed the re-
mand, being compelled so to do more es-| marks of the preceding speaker, as being
pecially from the regard and consideration he | impertinent, ungenerous, and entirely un-
owes to his troops. He does not insist upon | warranted by any facts known to them. His
an immediate dismissal at the moment that ; remarks were generally and heartily approved

enemy in Missouri, but hopes it will be soon

the last blow is ta be struck against the’ The meeting closed ata late hour.

NICHOLAS SAID:

The escape,
it is assented, has been effected through the

granted.

The flatteras correspondent of the New
York Commercial Advertiser, speaking of
the effect produced by the music of Gilmore’s |
band, says: “as the last strain of Yankee! A few days ago I aceidentally met with a
Doodle died on the air a general clapping of very remarkable black man in the city of
hunds culminated in three hearty cheers Detroit, Michigan. I was reading the
from the decks of over fifty vessels.”” ‘columns of The Pine and Palm, when my
Mayor Mackenzie of Alexandria, in a. attention was called to him by Mr. S. P. J.
speech at a recent Union meeting in that ‘Spencer, with whom he was personally ae-
city, declared, “ if the question must come, ,quainted. These two gentlemen com-
whether we shall have liberty or slavery, let, menced a very interesting conversation in
slavery go.” .the French language. I found him to be not
A ClLInMER oF ‘only a very intelligent man, but quite a
, . a, linguist. His history is so remarkable that
There is a rumor from Washington to the { thoucht its narration would be acceptable
effect that Gen. Fremont will soon be as- to the readers of The Pine and Palm.

The Learned African.

BY WM. J. WATKINS.

RETCRNING Reasox.—

Our journey terminates here. The next

are the’ Bechuanas and other tribes
known to the Cane Colonists, and amongst ; We presume

people

whom Christian missions have been planted
We have run over the vast interior of Atrica

through its utmost breadth in north latitude, |
and through its length from Barbary to the |
0 1] have | ‘
h located and ‘daily becoming more manifest.

neighborhood of Cape Colony We
seen the Moors and Arabs, bot

wandering, following customs which neve

“command of the Potomae Division. This
to he only a more delicate way
. tof making the same statement.
> not as tothe form, if the substance be se-
' cured.
much needed ; the urgent necessity for it, is
A decisively

Yr’ pragressive course must be adopted and fol-

change, and animated by dispositions 1n- "Javed up and out at once, or our hopes will
heren: ae no. th We have viewed the he blasted, our cause be ruined, and the
more pliable Nezro, the proper inhabitant of: 7, vee

was " pe ‘Union be prostrated beyond the possibility of

Tt matters ;

A change in the directing power is

: provisions. ‘Che commanders of the various
' bodies of Western troops, will hereafter be

authorized: (which hitherto has not been the
| case,) to communicate with one another, and
will held dircet. correspondence with the
Sceretary of War ; so that we may now look
for continued energetic and successful: action

Wise was sick, and was removed to Norfolk.
All the rebel gunboats but one were captured.
About 50 men eseaped from the Sstand.
The Richmond Enquirer says: ‘he loss of
an entire army on Roanoke Island is eer-
tainty the most painful event of the war.
The intelligence of yesterday, by telegraph,
is fully confirmed. 2,500 brave troops on
an Tsland in the sea, were exposed to all the
force of the Burnside flect.””

From Port Royal we learn, that in conse-
quence of the conduct of the Newspaper cor-

throughout that scction of the country.

Spies and traitors in Congress, the De-
partments, the Army, and the community at
large, are hing more industriously ferreted

On Friday last, an adjourned meeting was
held in this city, of individuals favorably
disposed to providing and sending teachers
to the contrabands at Fortress Monroe and
Port Royal. An association was organized
under the name of the ‘Educational Com-
mission ;”? a constitution was adopted, and | ?

commission, as set forth by the Rev. J. M.
Manning, (chairman of a committee,) is
“ta make all practicable efforts for the social, |
industrious, religious and moral improvement
of persons released from slavery during the

signed a command. Itis claimed by some
of his friends, that what is called Gen. Sigel’s
eampaign plan is preciscly similar to the one ,
marked outand about being exceuted by Fre: But when he opens his mouth to speak,

officers were elected. The object of this! features of the plan were the sending of f

protection of the people, and the repulsion of

His appearance is rather unprepossessing,
‘and, viewing him froma phrenological stand-
point, he would not be regarded as the pos

sessor of a very brilliant or active intellect.

mont, when he was removed. The general every line of his very black and tatteced
face beams with uncommon attraction, and
‘his eves sparkle with a vivacity and intel-
leetuality which tell you that their possessor
has visited the Pierian spring and drank

15,000 or 20,000 troops to Missouri for the

ebe s. whi } inderoft : « - .
the rebel generals, while the remainder of the deeply of its pellucid and refreshing waters.

The name of the subject of this little nar-

force pressed forward speedily, formed a:
rative, is Nicnotas Sarp. He is 2 native of

these regions, under a gveat variety of forms,

out, than at any former period. We wi

present war for the Union.”

respondents, Cum. Dupont has prohibited all
‘There are, according to Carleton of the

th Ne . .
communication with the North, and no

colors, conditions, and circumstances ;

: semi- i reinvigoration.

civilized, savaze. Mahometan, pagan ; weal-! Our expenses are enormous, and con-

thy and poor, master and slave,"in power and stantly upon the increase ; the Nation is fast |

under subjection; holding commerce wh
other nations, dwelling by themselves, and j
the desert.

All these people are capable of civilization,
perhaps not of the highest type, but at least
It must be a Chris

of a respectable form.
tian civilization. Mahometanism has injure
their tempers where it has improved the
manrers; and it has not benefitted their mo

a's, Sa, an increase of wealth in their pagan

’

state. hag only increased their folly, cruclty,
; They need a civiliza-
tion which shall repress their vices, humanize
their dispositions, and prove a Lond of peace

and other enormities.

and amity. Then their facilities for improv

ir!

’
a

n verging towards bankruptcy ; indeed, from

‘the statements made in the halls of Congress,
within the past week, we are already en-
gulphed in insolvency 5 and yet we have ac
‘complished litte or nothing in the way of
ad} : \

For months

terminating the great rebellion.
we have been all dt ready, yet never quite
ready. With half'a million of men in arms,
awaiting the conflict, eager for the fray, al-
most clamorous to be led on, we are still
- holding back for some unknown, unguessable
‘reason; waiting, Micawber-like, for some-

Y-

‘Ge

ment and happiness would be immense ‘thing to turn up; what, we know not, what,

Their teeming soil would support many times
its present occupants, furnishing them with

‘ho one can divine, but a certain misty some-
ty. . .
ithing; in the meanwhile, our monster force

the
the most valuable articles of commerce. C:

ton, indigo, coffee,
Caen oy eee enata and trrnitend Cony”

oe

tight be desired.

seregesves UNE Ue Ws SBMS WUE ase

Then their imports would be on a similar | recognize the independence of Rebeldom,

richest fruits of nature, and producing

sugar, rice, vegetable oil, | action,

rte
demoralized by camp life.

eT Baranaen nowers ara wateblacg

jis wasting by disease, being enfeebled by in-
The
Phe “present Sq kn: ‘ re wate wit) i}l-con-

I MAR, W) PAPE AEEMEIOUUL Sh, at least, as to

stale of magnitude ; for they generally desire |

forcien goods. ‘The Christianization of Afric

would enrich the mercantile countries of Mu-!

Tf, after such an cnormots consumption of

a . .
“time, such a vast expenditure of means to

rope, aud greatly add to or cheapen some of Cllect, arm, and equip the mighty force
1 . . +
their Joxuries. |which has been gathered, we are too weak
ate eerie have nearly completed | snecessfully to contend against. the enemy,
our knowledge of the main features of Afri- | . wae : ‘
" 4 3G main: Teatures f Afri lal our efforts to acquire sufflcient strength
can geography, by the authentic accounts I } . . °
which wo have received of the conree of the | or the purpose, will prove abortive; and the
Niger, the Lake Chad, the Zarabesi an) its | Wier course will be to make aimerit of neces

tributaries, and the lake regions. The vex

ed question about the gource of the White ; buck the reercant States, and acknowledue
Nile and the Mountains of the Moon remains ! ar
to be decided ; but thig refers to a very small |

part of Africa. [tis aseertained that tise
centre of Che continent consists of tinmense
plains, watered by large rivers and Jakes
with on oorasional bill or ridge of low
tains.
tersporsed with vast fores
de-ert land,

region, between it and the coust, are ridges
of invantaing, which are highest on the east
Abyssinia is bore! ilatorine:

ern tide of the continent

,{ precrastination, or avail of al) the ineans at
our disposal, and one ofthe most effective re-
WOU Cnging ag yet unavailed of, and resol :
; mou sas yet avatle ; resolute!

The leve) country has a rich eoil, in- | »
a and portions of:
On either side of thie immense

-fsity, relinquish all further exertions to bring

OF pronounce them to he no longer a part of

ithe Union. Let ns do this without further

fl

jperceveringly, amd unremittingly press for-
vward and carry the war to, perhaps its bitter,
| we Crust its vlorious termination,
We apprehend that much of the delay and
1

attendant

ipon eur war Opera.

dered on the south hy the bigher “Mountains
ofthe Moon.” Subsequent ranges deereave oo ,

in attitude, ull they again rive near the count jthe part of Gen, MeClellan, Jest he should
in Mount Kenia and Kilmanjfaro, the datter | Jose the high onilitary reputation whieh has
of which ik capped with snow, though only been conferred upon him in advance of its
two degrees distant from the equator, Next hejae earned
follow the hills of Crusbara, which extend | | “ .
from the enastinward. Below them are the |
Nya hill4, runsing ina Jong ridge from jut when carried to the morbid extreme, that
north ta south 5 which are suceceded by the [it ecems now lo he, itis highly reprehensible,
a and chould he sternly rebuked,

Hons, is vightly attributable toa fear upon

This is natural, aud a due

egree of proenution is commendable in hin;

ranges crossed by Capt. Burton and &
lying farther inward, The bills Of Babteae ‘tion, doubtless, is dear to hin: our riehts
and those nearer to the Zambest are leva ele- . . , "
vated, and some ofthen are fnown to abound pind Tiberties are acy dese to us and if the
in coal and valuahle minerals, Lone ar the other muct be saerifieed, which we

Fauth of the Zamben, a double range of (believe not, letit he the former, wot the latter;
raountaing extending — zcuthward
giearly the cavtern half of the continent,
jug the district of the Dake Nystad the
Malabar Desert on their western aide.
Afterwards, oue great range runs near the | have,’
coum! Vinards the Cape. The western coset the careful consideration of our Commander,
of Afriex i¢ alea bordered hy mountainn, fin the hope that beeasaine inaypn
whieh reldom branch far into the interior; | pathfulness. Ie may “a
thongh we have found that they do xo near | Sauna Ae .
the equator, jrleadily heeping in view diz country’s honor

What will be the future of Afrien, when jand fair fame, boklly and nobly lead onward
is rivers and Jakes shall be covered with | to vietory or death. iH
steamboats, and its rich plains intersected by ; tore ,
railwags,-—-when We Jabors of the engineer “We have heen told that the fit duty
snd ayrleulturiat ehedl fave rid it of postilen- lof a robdier ts iaplicitly to abey arden, It
Nhl stiscamtents, cohen its fruitful soil aliall “ue Hid not for him te rit in judsanent upon the
pork ie teeming population, and abandantly | dey “4
furnish those commodities which Murope ue
desires to import 4

[aie nen |

Anucan Aw yon, Cinistiantane fa. | Peuel the common ; wad trict ohedicnee,
, “runiler severe quilitary penalty for nepleet, is

DIANK.-- Sn i inecourst: On mies wy ray he | oops
auury work, j demanded of hit,

Nis repel

occupies |

}

pericb the individual, for the salvation of the

ave! i
hay | COMMmULY,

There ts a hmuely, but ex-
premaive raying, “nothing veatine, nothing
’ ' .
We would commend his adage to

ed with its

aronee, sanle rel and

Land obey ar net, ache nay choose,
or think: best, or ais whi or eapries uuy

fdictufess suflieient in ik Ghat his Kuperion hn

Oy rather this wais fin

delivered not long sines ut Mt Paul Minne. | . . 1
is Huts j marly the vary of mnnaging cuch alfaten 5 but

pleasure announce the encouraging prospect,
and trast it will not prove illusory.
4 —wee>

Tt is being more than whispered that

steamer or sailing vessel will be permitted to
leave until all of his plans are perfected.

Tne Butter Expeprriox.—Those having
immediate charge are again actively envzaged
in getting on board, troops, munitions, and
various stores preparatory to departure from
this port.
daunted, Capt. Elliott, left for Ship Island,
with a large amount of stores, and 150
horses.

those who have the management of military
affairs, have no well digested plan of opera-
tions; but that the commander of each di-
vision acts, in no small degree, in accordance
with the dictates of his own judgment, or to
carry into effect some preconceived notion ;
henee so many contradictory proclamations
Whether this be so

the accommodtion of troops.

and conflicting projects. the Ocean P—, sailed on Saturday. Other

probably effet grand results. THis plan of
operations would be to make a rapid series of
movements against the enemy, without giv-
ing them time for rest or shelter ; he would
press forward upon Nashville, and Columbus, | fact that the 2

of the rebels, the Merrimac has proved a fail-
ure.
of its contempors :s, fur having ‘‘in their thir

for notoriety, st before the public tl

‘y.

junction with Buell in Kentueky, and then
pushed on to Nashville and Knoxville, in

Central Africa (Soudan.) of the kingdom of
:Bornu, and is twenty-four years of aze.

On the Sth inst., the ship Un-

The ships North Amerien and
Idaho cleared the same day, both fitted for
These, with

os . : 1s ‘pesp]ey™ sulvaneed st yo prenaras

or not, itis quite certain that Gen. Sigel has vesscley’ n advanced state of prepara
. . . » a
a plan, and one which, if acted on, would tion RS)

\ . * .
Much teh disappointment and chagrin

Boston Journal, between 1,000 and 2.000
slaves in Gen. Buell’s camp, (Ky.) Some
of them sené there by their masters for saje
keeping. Slaves eseaping to the eamp are
given up on the requisition of their masters.
None are allowed to leave of their own
accord. Once within the lines, they are
compelled to stay until claimed.

“he same informant states that, after the
Mill Springs’ battle, a large number of slaves
came into Gen. ‘Thomas’ camp, their faces
radiant with joy and expectation ; but they
were all ordered to depart, and threatened
with punishment, “if they did not return to
their masters !”

‘The preceding are instances of Govern-
ment non-interference with slavery.  Nu-

Tennessee.

; When he was ten years old he was stolen
As Misur Have Beex Ayticreatep.— ‘and sold to Egypt, thence to Tripoli, thence
The action of the Sceretary of War, in ap-: [© Feazan, to Syria, Asia Minor. and Turkey.
pointing a commission to visit the Prisons of: t Turkey he regained his liberty. From
. we urkey he went to Russia. where he re-

Rebeldom, and ascertain the condition of the ined during the Crimean war, after whieh,
Union soldiers therein confined, has excited ' gs the ralef of an accomplished Russian
the iraseibility of some of the enemy, who prince. named Troubetzkouy, (who educated
view it as a piece of cool effrontery. The him.) he travelled | thronghew pore. In
Varfolk Day - yomarks. © erish Jeeember, LdoO, be lett Engiand for the
Norfolk Day Book remarks, the exquisite United States, Portland, Maine, being bis
modesty ef this propesition entitles Mr. gescination. After having visited Boston,
Stanton to the reputation of being the most: New York, and other commercial cities, in
!eompany with a German merchant, of con-
‘ siderable wealth, he went to the beautiful and
: fertile island of Hayti, where be remained
six months. His experience on that island

impudent man among all King Lineoln’s
proverbially impudent subjects.” §

Next week we will commence the

merous eases of the like kind are constantly

The Nort. Day Book comlemns two

st

ae

oft repeated declaration of slavery worshiy

oceurting ; clearly evincing the truth of the

was of the most pleasant character. In speak-
ing of its cloud-kissed mountains, its deep,

\
. \
publication of one of the charming Noveleties |

1 of Balzac, who has been styled the Dickens UEKI ;
broad valleys, its river, woeds, and plains, he

‘mace has proved an abor-

pers, advocates, and defenders, that this ts
not & war for emancipation, but for the
subjugation of the colored race, and with the

. . . y . ”
destroy the communication between Nash. | ton.

eapture Ur
is situated 5' ailes from the mouth of. the
Tennessee River, aul was 2 very important
post to the e emy; the loss of it cuts off
comminieatica between Columbus and Bowl-
ing Green, an” gives us tree ingress to the
heart of ‘Tennessee. Gen. Tilghman, wh
was in command, his staff and GO men wer
taken prisoners,

toward the southeast, and anouier wowy oe

tween the Tennessee and Mississippi rivers.
Such an advance movement, he says, with
100,000 men would render all successful op-
position Carried out with
promptness and energy, it would throw the
enemy into confusion and distract all his

impossible.

plans. Al nec niust venture something ” i
sirdew to an 1 FM) ouns and 17 mortars, Outside of the Mor
7 succeed, . rs inf:
t $ were encamped 4,000 or 5,000 infantry, wh

toe >

——A movement is now hei

! mis now being made hy |; : ity of
sacaorints Comat ane ') including a large and valuable quantity ol
nemorkus to Congress, public meetings in fordnance stores. Gen. ‘Tilghman in. sur-

rendering to Mhig Officer Foote, observed,
“Tam glut to surrender to so eatliut an
officer.” "Phe Flay Officer replied, ‘yar do
perfectly right, sir, in surrendering, but you
should have blown my bout out of the water
before Towould have surrendered to yon,’
Whilst fully aware of the importanee of this
vietory, we confess that we cannot) exactly
see, with a cotemporary, bow the closing sen-
tenes of Gen. Halleck's: bulletin—that the
Mag of the Union will never be removed
from the soil of? Teanessee—-indieates, in
some degree, the importance of the achieve-
ment of our gunboats,”

The rebels atleet lo consider the capture ol

our large cities, &e., to have extra exertions
used to effet the release of Col. Corcoran.
AIP such actions, we think, unwise, and eal
culated to prolong, rather (han shorten, his
period of incarceration sand very probably
of ‘
hardships he may now endure.

will

areravate, insted mitigating, the

lle and

certain other ollicers, it will be remembered,

were east into felons’ cells, as hostages for
the Uh oS,

contdemped as pirates; the threat beine pit.
; s

individaals tried in Court and

miuleated, Ghat in case the sentences of the
eurt was exeented on the latter, the former
should at once be subjected toa similar fate. |: : ,
C a " . Wilar fate. | it was a kind of “one horse” concern. They
covernment has seen fit to adter its course of ‘
over (he ‘Ponness
venience to them, “not aimatter of any rent
detriment.”

procedure, and insted! of holding Ghese amen
es conviels, rebiing thene as prisoners of war.
Appheation has in CORSE Quleliee heen mide
The Memphis papers berate Gen, Critten-
den violently for the rebel defeat) ac MAL
Spring, which they charge to his dyunken-
neas and: treachery. The Nashville Gazette
jetas inthe “hie and ery,” and thinks an
investioation will connect with the ertine of
drunkenness, the greater sins of (reason,
treachery and cowardice, The fist Revola-
tion hadan Arnold the second revelation
miy likewise have one?”

The Bowling Green Courier, in its ae-
count of the battle, says, Zollicoller, ov beine
recopttzedt by some of the Unionists, with the
most profeet coolness, rushed towards the
Federal column, and with bis sabre, eat the
head of the Linealn colonel from his
shoulters, his wordertul feat) of prest)-
nisnipulation must pveatly astonish Colonel
ry, the ofieer decapitated, when mute
Kiowa to hin, he fittle suspecting: Chat he is
nowone ether than a torso, ail ast here
aflor train with the Chendless horseann

fo the rebel ollieiads, to learn if they wold
exehanre Col. Coreoran, Lee, aud others
for said prisoners; and, as nicht have been
anticipated, Che auswer is returned, ge,

Hhis now rumored, that Jem Davis Chreat
ens to dime the above named oliecrs and
their associates, da ease we execute any mere
of the Western bridew burners, aud railroad
destroyers,

We think none too well of Davis to believe
he

make rach aominntery prockomlion, if by ne

would hesitate a osiaele moment, to
Voie, he daneine, he ean alam us, or jndlace
ui to xwerve from any fixed purpose, or yield
Nhe tatent

Coreorean will avon be

tony exorbiliat demand of his.
Col.

relensed, through the epectal efforts of See.

runner bs Unt

iehary Stanton, 4
The London ‘Vines correspondent, Major Wright: informs Gon, Wytian at

furcell, dies postponed, far tho present, his Rodda, thiaet Ther hans satistinetorily docertaiied

“warinreateyt

purpose of riveling the chains of bondage the
hee wwwm ayy 3

Miscenpaxrous’ Iremas.—The Washing-
ton correspondent of the New York Eve-

Back numbers can be had

of Franee, but of greater genius than the becomes so enthusiastic, and so anxious for
Englishman. It will extend through four or js Jisteners to appreciate his utterances. that
five numbers. It is translated expressly for | his eves, nose, mouth, hands, head. and feet.
Ane oie wa mt ML. Utes er tea he striving ye ta caber sthe prodi!-— “fF
WevuLuuuuD UL atay is caauily half published. I r Tpetual motion.

Thave said that he was educated by a

at three cents | 4, 7... .
Russian Prince. He converses quite fluent-

each, both of the Alfieans at Home and

1 Joe care } je or
ning Post, says it is rumored that two or
three leading members of the House have

| have; Haytian Revolutions.
prepared speeches against Gen. McCletlan. >

|

jly in the French, Italian, German, Russian,
7 ’ ve . % Y

rand English languages. He reads Greek

The Fort) contained 30

“cut and ray,” leaving everything behind,

ejered, tending to prove the ineflicieney and
incompetency of the Commanding General.
an oo ne : . . we

t{ The feeling ts so decided against him in influ-

wp. as itis one of the most important thets
of the time.

of Maets unknown to the public have been gath-

of ential quarters, that it is useless to cover it

fand Latin well.” Tregard him, all things
‘eonsidered, a very remarkable young man.
| There is nothing yinéca? or supercitions about
jhim. His brawny arms. hard bands, and
coarse apparel, tell. vou that he isa hand-
hworking man. He saws woed, works on the
_ boat, porterizes at some store or hotel. any

——
- € he Fine,
MEBTING OF COLORED BOSTONIANS..

Reported exptessly for The Pine and Pan.

| A pubke meeting of the colored citizens

ithing to make an honest living. He says

restoration of fieitives, neither ean the United

Stites return Chem without cuskavine tree. |
wien, Ne

‘The Maine Senate has passed a resolution, |
Zbtod, in favor of confiscating, liberatiag

PIVES AS A Yeas |

ul alsa arming the rebels’ slaves, i it be a!
military tevessity,
Ilon, ALS. Diven, EL C.,

{
|
‘

Monroe, opened the meeting, by an earnest |
and fervent prayer, vhiel
| request, he consented to
ment of his experience and that of his tellow-

‘this ts a very bad country for the black peo-
‘ple to live in, and he must seon get out of it
for his mind as well as his body will be
wretched. Weuld that colered Americans,
generally, were possessed of the elevated
aspirations which distinguish this native Ati
em! We would not fold our arms together,
and be cuamored with the dulect tones of
that Shope en, hope ever” instrument, the
istrains of which make glad the city ef our
noe expenenes ane une oppressor’s god. ,

aes fo contined at unl Thad F Vecnonas Sap intends to Teave for Hayti,
“ . eon ‘Win Marvel or in) May. May suevess: attend
hargsd thac the refugees were idle and) did this efforts to elevate himself and his race!

=
=
34
Fd
VA
z
4e
=
2
ree]
-
z

After which, by urgent |

give 2 brief’ state: j

Fort Henry, hy our troops, no reat allite ;

ilso consider the destruction of the bridee
eriver, althoneh an ineon-

son for no onward uilitary movement, that
no considerable force ean be withdrawn trom
the Potomae, without weakening our lines too
much; of whieh eur ever vigtlint toe would
immediately take advantage, |
On the oth instant, Mr, Bright of Indiana |
was expelled trom the United States Senate |
for treason, by a vote of 82 to LA,

{tis confidently believed that all water |
communication between Mobile and New
Orleans has heen completely stopped,

The lovat editor of the Richmond Mauguirer,
who has heen ona reeent visit to) Baltunore,
says, we fer with too much truth, that more
(han nine-tenths, mot only of the Baltiore-
ans, but of the whole body of Marylanders,
are warmest symipathisers with Rebellom.
There are now actively employed at the
Springliold Armory, L-f00 hands, who have!
manatactured, curing the pastimonth, 10,500
nskets, and -UL000) during the hist seven
months.

The President has recommended a vate. of!
thanks by Congress, ta Captain Samuel PL
Dupont, fur bis services ad gallantry ais
played in the eapture of the forts commend:
mye the entranes te Port Royal harbor, Nov,
Tih, ESb4, ,

One of the rebel papers, ander date of the
Oth tastant, asserts Ghat the Nerthertt prea: i
ple, the Northern Army, the Novthorn Navy,
weary of tho contliet, oponty confess art “a
tow more doteats mast convert Chom into ad:

the rehet forvo ander Cries at Springtiold,
Mo, does not oxeeedt 8,000 or £0,000 non:
all State troops, Ula is praparing to decump;
hit foraging: parties are xeizing a preat many
Union men and deateoying their ruporty ;
nnd intess our oavalyy aud artillery ne
pressed forward, ho will assuredly a cape,

Lanes Atlantic trip. Te may be recollected
that he advised bis coployers if Mason aul
this

Alo, if danny

er .
Slidell were piven up, Coverninent

would come fou end,

pursed hy without a Mederal vietary, the

\ .
Government would bo atau ent, Agsxtous

ita, hy Birhop Whipple, he tated that the
funds hy means of which he commenced lis
minsionsry laherd with the Dultotu fadisun,
Were sent hy the native Converta rerident ul.
Cape Vabass, Afrien, They had een in
sonnts publication the Wisheop's append for ny
ristanee, and timuluted ty yrotiduds fur the
religious benefits they hud enjayed, they neds
hin n remittiuce, whiek constituted thes fleet
peeomary inenne applied to the Dakota sis:

we presiing that, with other old things, this
how heen done away, aud all has beeoue
new. Mor Mr. Dunlop of Kentueky, in the
cone of ne npeceh befor the Clouse of
Heprexcatutives, a few days ainee, eid that
five WMlineis ceyiments, when told the object.
of Whe war was to put owe alavery, alneked
Heir srs, stuting that they were only cutled

auth fo sapprens rebellion, Aw maigelil. snutine

sion haat will the revilers wid conlemnerns
of the black mun say ls thin t

nlty hans mupponed, noms ovale. was esdrad aus

to dnerense bin enhinet of curiosities, by the
widiGion of whatever nny be obtained, either
Veh, rare, or unique, he ia new in dilipent
quent of the ead alluded to, whiel would
fori avaliable qecemion to hin recherehe
collection,

This modern explorer hin recently made
another preat dlincavery vias Chat there in

“aa extruordinnry lack of ordinary palition!

conmoon Kenn dn the Aimerienn journal”

to the aceurmay of the assertion ; whereupon

ru

Troop tntantey, artillery and cavalry
are daily arriving. al Cairo, HL Phe forces
now aconbled thors ace estimated at 84,000
to 10,000,

General Hnter has doedaredt martial hay
ie aed, aid nimonuneed’ that jayhawlings
wunt he pat down. ‘Pho Seoretary of Now
Mexivo has arrived at Leavenworth and re-
ports that martial law hos heen proclaimed
metho ‘Perviory, The velol Con, Sibly is
nuavehing upon Bort Craig: with 200 Toxann
atl artillery, A largo fovea inate raid to
he lvaneing on Mort Union. Uhe Tnatiais
ao thio beeomlag troubloone,

voenten of a prompt recognition af the South:
ern Government, ‘Thus Jetdou advances, |
nd ik will not he astennding if) ina tow
mouths, Seward and hia philosophy are nega:
fived so eomplotely na to ellvet thoir banish:
dnont from Niners.

AL Sooratary  Chae's reception, an the
eventing of tho Gth tastant, Che Phatehinsan:
Wore present, unl ste Lo pret deeeplanee,
winony other songs, the oun for singing whieh
they were expelled Contour eanips aevoss the
Potomuea,

Mason and Shidoll arvived at Southampton
on the 9c alt, and proceeded at ones to
London; wheneo Slitall took his departure
for Paria, ‘Pho London Thos says, althoneh
there ia a huge party inthe Howse of Con
Hon whieh will endeavor to urge upon Qoy.
ernment a poliay al titertocauee ia the
Amorionn atragglo, dhe envoys will de well
to maintain a imuatorty innotivity,

country, have ue right fo pass upon the | che author veterred to,

Lot want te work. He would deay thatiep : . ;
oharee, They were pertectly wT . | Phere no white man's tyrannical mandate ean
for cu aa ut Y WEES CO Werk clip the wings of his lefty ambition. ‘There
or compensation. “They had already worked | he ean. by industry and. persey.
jr he tor the Gone ut) the ean, by industry and perseverance, reach
i stx months for the Government without pay, | th \ Bt :| In Im
ul oven withe: : PAY i the mountain top where his lofty aspirations
and even without actual comforts, so far as love to Hues Uhere his thirsty s
bedding was concerned. ‘They also needed | Pe Latin rere fis thirsty soul may
hanks and in tructions +t] ey AO Reeded | teink of the pure and ervstil streant ot Lib.
on structions + Woops rere oi . . -7
a ms wy Werte very UX: erty. There the sunlight: shall tlash upen
tous to leara how for ead and write,-~both eld |, I tertilize his every cuerey : :
nut youne, ‘Thy obl manot catches ve and fertilize his every energy. Again, with
g vw, ‘ SENOVTVG Vearrs. 1 .
ne ea ' OU SINT -LlVe Yeats, Tiny whole heart, E say. may success attend
vas Justas eager to learn as che titde boy ef: hin! .
live vears old. S| ai ; 33
tie ‘ _. . | Advian, Mieh.. Feb. -£. 1862.
is health not permitting him to speak to | ie eee. .-
them loneer o ‘present accasi ali aes Repos ae
en mae ‘ 1) re preseut occasion, he hope Ue _ Bue Renimios ve tar Queen. Queen
vo have the pleasure ot addressiug them; Vietoria is said to be a Swedenbergian, snd
aut rae tite tine, ithe report is that her late husband) died in
Mr. Romond then addressed che niveting. | thactaith, A letter in the Montreal Herald
Ho regretted that the gentleman who pres | says:
veded him was net ina condition to enter) Prines Albert, Tike the late Duchess of
tain then at greater leugth. with bis very Rent, King Leopold, and others of their
thtoresting renuirks. Ue did not wish to! serene and royal relatives, was a believer in
have what hy should say. wearded asa les the Swedenborgian interpretation of! the
ture, but simply as a triendly: and familiar! Bible. Neither he nor dhe Duchess of Kent
conversation, Ele beheved che time had o underwent the ministration of any clergyman,
come fo be practical, The didi net wish (oj adininisteation of sacraments, fe. in their
by considered as advising any particular last moments, theugh hey beth hybiaally
course on the partet cho colared people, -- leek the conaminion at) Raster. Leis said
any man who wonld: propose amy detinite chat the Queen has also adopted the peeuliar
cese of aebon, on the part of the colored | views of religious philosophy mopounded by
wople at the present crisis, would be uash othe learned Swede and itis hinted thae the
twats all dmrportant, that) tho steictest eat puntioped for caluiess and pesiguaton with
Hien should be oxereised against saying or iwhieh sho has hitherto berne up under the
dota ay thing vashly, less the course of bor firreparable loss sho has been so suddenly
ty be damaged thereby, Uo would say, how: featled upon to bear, may possibly be due to
‘ . . ‘ vue . . : . . ' . . . . . «
ever, tieany event, i was the duty ot the ithe consoling vharacter of tho convictions
colored people to remain in this countey. thence derived in regard to the nature of! the
Vhongh he would have it understood that in| Qansition that the world calls death, and
view of present ciretimatinees, he was by whieh are usually found to exereise se pow
\ ; . ay Np tote vf . . . . .
ho meas happy. Tho whites insist upon fortilan dnthienes over the minds ot these
* 1 oo . a G M * 1 1 :
our dneapavity, Bat the people of this} who become conversant with the werks: ot
Tf suvh really be the
charaeter at tho colored people, une they fease, and our exeetlont aid beloved sovervign
have given thom a ehanee te establish a lean tind. inthe views vefermd) to, any sus
character, Noowithstanding the continaod | tuning consolation under dhe grievous sorrow
iyaticn of the white people of this country that has darkened all coming Christinas
towards the colored people, he dotiod the {seasons tar the royal heath ot” Rugktd, the
" is ’ :
Ruston Herald, ar any other prestavery {fret could hardly be regretted by the most
piper, to prove that any blick man had fovthedox of her Majesty’s loyal and ates
. . . . ’ . .
either Garned rebel or traitor, Ele would | donate liege."

Inge the neeessity ot patience WESOVOR | it } {
i) CaP yo pationeo aud porsover | Many ot tho clergymen ef the Chamwh of
aneo, ~~ Gol!s hand wart moving in the allies | England av tod to bo of tl
° : . UTE URE Pepe ds ye : :
of the conntry, ad his only hopo was in| " gi : N reporter o be of the same way
hin. ‘The calared people area serious ele of thinking; as is also the ease with ou
mont in this country ,--as humble ax we may | Worthy codditor who bas special charg of

. . “

bo, thy difioultion oxiating cannot be adjusts lows outside form,

Le RER

The savage manner in whieh the Bushmen
live, like mere animals preying upon their)
fellows, seems to have produced an unsightly
Se aps . ae
degradation of their physical system. ‘This
is inereased by the heat and thirst of the
desert in which they reve. Their body is
small, lean, shriveled up.—ungainly  speci-
mens of human nature, of all the prerogatives
of which they might scem to be destitute. |
Other creatures besides man possess cunning
and sagacity in hunting and foraging, te
which all the Bushman’s faculties of body and
mind are now limited. But his use of pots. | Cee ee
d arrows. his quickness in deception, and} BOSTON: THURSDAY, FEB. 13, 186
one q ines ai '
the knowledge which he possesses of the -=-—-- 9 = :
1 fy j “of! y days smice yas announeed
habits of other animals, display a power of! A few d iys since it was
intelligence which might be exercised on the on the authority of some Washington quid:
useful arts of life. . Lune, that Seeretary Stanton was about as-
The Bakalahsr re the (esert with , suming the position belonging to him as the
: ; y live here as exiles rath: | , . .
Bushmen ; mt they Ne ere tee wyicul: | head of the War Department, and that Gen.
er than aborigines. They practise agricu | MeClell a ‘ened to. the com
Sy . . ry { * ¥ (| » assy W C .
ture and rear domestic animals. ‘They are a | MeClellan w on de assigned: {
timid race, have thin limbs, and large pro-; mand of the Potomac Division of the army.
trudine abdomens. For safety’s sake they This we deemed cheering intelligence, and
‘choose their residence at a distance | " .
often choose their residence at a distance! + yact mav vet prove true: believing that
from water ; and hide their supplies by fill: ' still trust may yet prove true 5 belevmg
ing up the pits, and even making a fire over |
them. ‘The women draw the water with long posed ene ]
reeds, by means of suction. An enemy | pose, resolutencss and promptitude of action,
coming to one of their viliges ean ifnd NO }to throw off the visinertie which has para-
ater: but it will be speedily supphed toa: yg Smaflnn.
Rend. hehe bande at thei oneios have lyzed, or rendered in great measure ineflee
been Jost or Jed astray in this thirsty region, | 8VE: Governmental movements.

and have perished from drought. + We now have another rumor from Wash-

2.

there is an urgent need of a man of his sup-
rey of character, fixedness of pur-

1

Mr. Dunlop) gave as his authority, Col,
Loran, Why, we would ask, was such a
i breach of duty, sucha case of insubordination
tolurated for a moment by the officers, and
why, he having suffered it to go unrebuked,
or unchastised, was he longer suflered to
hold a commission? We know not what
reviments cre referred to, (hat so ignomini-
ously disgraced themselves ; but sure are we
that Col, Farnsworth's cavalry will not he
found among them. Que of their number
writes, “there is not ao slave-catcher among
the twelve hundred ; ner aman of them but
is in favor of confiseating the slaves of the
traitors, as a war measure. ‘The whole regi-
ment consists of straight Union men, who
have no ‘bowels ef compassion’ for rebels,
?>79?

nor adoration for the ‘divine institution.’ 7? §

twee:
Our canse begins to
ing. From Washington comes the intel-
ligenee, that the President has decided for
the future to be in reality, what, heretofore
he has only been nominally, Commander-in-
Chief; and that. bis orders will be hereafter
issucd through the War Department. We
trust among the earliest. movements, will be
the clearing of the Potomac River, the suc.
cessful interruption of the navigation of

Jook more cheer-

i
|

|
|
}

Wan Ivems.—The expedition for the ‘Yon-
nessee and Cumberland Rivers, designed to
make a demonstration against: Forts Henry
and Donelson, consisted of a force of not less
than 20,000 men.

Thirteen vessels of the Mortar Fleet, of
which Capt. Porter is to have command,
have seb sail from New York. ‘Lhe re-
maining portion will soon leave.

t
(

Cc

Brassipe Exreprriox,—By the latest
intelligence this expedition was making
anoattack on) Roanoke Island. A_ cor-
respondent of the New York Post states that
the rebels are fully booked up as to all of
our contemplated movements. ‘While
every correspondent atlached to the ex-
pedition has carefully refrained from sending

t
}
i
l

Monroe about 5,000 persons, who were
formerly held in bondage; two-thirds of

which sum the Jaborer reecives in cash fifty
Government as a contingent fund for various

clothed, fed, Ke.

reached Newport News from Rebeldom, of

Costrananps.—Phere are now at Fortress

hese are able-bodied men, now laboring for
Jovernment at $10 per month each; of

ents weekly ; the balance being reserved by
mirposes, such as keeping himself and family

Contrabands at Williamsport, Md., say
hat all the able-bodied colored men are
being taken te Richmond, Va., to be formed
nto regiments, and armed for the defence of
hat city.

About contrabands — recently

a dozen

The Emperor Napoleon, did not, (as it
was anticipated he would.) announce at the
opening of the French Chambers his resolu-
tion to abolish the Federal blockade. He
wishes first to seeure the moral ccdperation.
of Mngland.

Brigaticr Gen. Stone has been sent to
Fort Lafayette, under arrest, charged - with
misbehavior at the battle of Ball’s Bluff;
holding correspondence with the enemy he-
fore and since the hattle, receiving visits in bis |
camp from rebel officers; treacherously suf
fering the enemy to erect military works,
since the battle, under his guns without moles-
tation ; treachcrously designing to expose his
force to capture and destruction by the
enemy, under pretence of orders for a move-
ment from the commanding General, which

ed independent of us, We are to sail to-
gether on this voyage of life.
This:is but an imperfect sketch of the
eloquent lecture, which was frequently warm-
ly applauded.
* At’the close of the lecture, Mr. J. 8.
Smith, inquired of Mr. Davis, whether he
was under any obligation to return back to
Fortress Monroe,—who stated that he was,
and should do so on aecount of his own
family and the other contrabands detained
there. Mr. Remond hoped that Mr. Davis
would not allow himself to be carried about
by the gentleman who he accompanied for
exhibition.

Robert Morris, Esq., spoke vehemently
against slaves begging money to pur-
chase their freedom, and against their pnr-

whom two have been made one by the Chap-
lain of the 20th Regiment. Forty-six human
beings, claimed as belonging to the estate of
L. D. Franklin, who died worth $700,000
to $800,000, were sold at Morristown, Tenn.,
on the 21st ult. Among them three girls,
two of the age of seventeen, and one fifteen
years, brought each $1,500; one girl thir-
teen years of age was sold for $1,300, and
some twelve years old, $1,100.

The Philadelphia Inquirer, learns by a
gentleman from New Orleans, that there
have been numerous slave conspiracies and
insurrections in various parts of the South,
and that many of the conspirators have been
hung. Great apprehensions prevail among
the reflecting and intelligent, as to slave-

information North, and while the officers
were entirely ignorant of the programme, it
is known even to the drum-boys in the rebel
reviments! And they have known it for a
fortnight past. It is impossible
that the rebels should have known so cor-
reetly the designs of this expedition, unless
they had reecived the information from those
who had access to the effietad sources.”
The Baltimore Clipper, in an extra, an-
nounces that Roanoke Island was captured
after three days fighting. The only obstacles |
to interfere with a mareh upon Norfolk by the
Union forces, we are told, are swanrps,
marshes, and sickness.

Later news brings the cheering intelligence

of the complete suecess of the expedition at

A considerable number of slaves

Roanoke Island.

rising.

The desert has thus proved a place of ington, namely: that Gen. McClellan, not
refuge to many tribes when ov eiden by te Mr. Stanton. is about, taking the initiative
fal f re vainly eavored to! . .
erful foes, who have vainly ends “ya. step to organize a new state of affrirs, and
pursne them here, or have done so to their | © 5 liev
own destruction. We need scarcely say that | Starla hew war pency.
the Bakalahari are as untutored as the Bush- :t

mon that is. as wholly as human neta can} Sceretary, the control of the entire army,

it . * Ad . .

. ‘reserving to himself only the direction and
The next} } wa
‘command of the Potomae Division.

be.
Our journey terminates here.
people are the Bechnanas and other tribes
known to the Cane Colonists, and amongst
whom Christian missions have been planted. of making the same statement,
We have run over the vast interior of Africa, “yot as to the form, if the substance be ge-
throu zh its utmost breadth in north Jatitude, !
and through its length from Barbary to the |
neichborhood of Cape Colony We have ; : ‘
seen the Moors and Arabs, both located and : daily becoming more manifest.

we prestune to he only amore de

ened.

wandering, following customs which never! pracressive course must be adopted and fol-
change, and animated by dispositions in-* |pwog up and out at once, or our hopes will

herent in their race. We have viewed the | he bl
more pliable Negro, the proper inhabitant of | YO”
these regions, under a great variety of forms, :
evlors, conditions, and circumstances ; semi- | reinvigoration.
civilized, savage. Mahometan, pagan ; weal: |
thy and poor, master and slave,"in power and |
under subjection; holding commerce with |
other nations, dwelling by themselves, and in

which by the enemy has been too long a

ras taken possession of a ys
Tt was taken p have eseaped to the Union Fleet and to Ship

had not been given.
Gen. Sigel, announces through the Mich

owes to his troops.

enemy in Missouri, but hopes it will be soo
granted.
The Hatteras correspondent of the Ne

the effect produced by the music of Gilmore

from the decks of over fifty vessels.”
Mayor Mackenzie of Alexandria, in

gan Journal, that he has resigned his com-
mand, being compelled go to do more es-
pecially from the regard and consideration he
Ife does not insist upon
an immediate dismissal at the moment that
the last blow is to be struck against the

York Commercial Advertiser, speaking of

band, says: ‘‘as the last strain of Yankee
Doodle died on the air a general clapping of |
hands culminated in three hearty cheers Detroit, Michigan.

chasing it at all. He would not give a mill
for any such purpose.

Dr. J. B. Smith strongly opposed the re-
marks of the preceding speaker, as being
impertinent, ungenerous, and entirely un-
warranted by any facts known tothem. His
remarks were generally and heartily approved
The meeting closed ata late hour.

NICHOLAS SAID:
The Learned African.

i-

n

Ww

BY WM. J. WATKINS.

A few days ago I accidentally met with a
very remarkable black man in the city of
I was reading the

‘columns of The Pine and Palm, when my
a ‘attention was called to him by Mr. 8S. P. J.

's

We are told that:

he Creneral will turn over femporarily to the

This:
licate way
Tt inatters :

A change in the directing power is
inueh needed 5 the urgent necessity for it, is
A decisively

serious inveonvenience and dire disgrace to
us, and the suitable protection, and placing
in successful operation ihe Ubiv and Missis-

| sippt Railroad, the interruption of which has
threatened materially to effect the markets,
by the keeping back of large quantities of

.- in .
provisions. ‘Che commanders of the various
| bodies of Western troups, will hereafter be

4
authorized (which hitherto has not been the

case,) to communicate with one enether, and
will hold direct correspondence with the
Seeretary of War ; so that we may now look
for continued energetic and successful action
throughout that section of the country.

Spies and traitors in Congress, the De-
partments, the Army, and the community at

and Com. Lynch’s fleet entirely destroyed.
Elizabeth City was attacked on Sunday and
evacuated by the inhabitants, being previous:
ly burned, but whether by our shells or the
inhabitants is not known. News of this de-
feat reached Norfolk Sunday, and caused
great excitement, ‘The rebel foree on the
Island was about 3,000 fighting men. Gen.
Wise was sick, and was removed to Norfolk.
All the rebel gunboats but one were captured.
About 50 men escaped from the Island.
The Richmond Enquirer says: ‘The loss of
an entire army on Roanoke Island is cer-
tainly the most painful event of the war.
‘The intelligence of yesterday, by telegraph,
is fully confirmed. 2,500 brave troops on
an Tsland in the sea, were exposed to all the
force of the Burnside fleet.”

Krom Port Royal we learn, that in conse-

complaint of the recent escape of slaves from

Island

The Norfolk (Va.) Day Book publishes a

that city, valued at $20,000. The escape,
it is assented, has heen effected through the
agency of secret societies there established,
who, in open day, hold weekly meetings.

On Friday last, an adjourned meeting was
held in this city, of individuals favorably
disposed to providing and sending teachers
to the contrabands at Fortress Monroe and
Port Royal. An association was organized
under the name of the ‘Educational Com-
mission ;’? a constitution was adopted, and
officers were elected. The object of this
commission, as set forth by the Rev. J. M.
Manning, (chairman of a committee,) is
“to make all practicable efforts for the social,
industrious, religious and moral improvement

speech at a recent Union meeting in that Spencer, with whom he was personally ae-
city, declared, “if the question must come, ;quainted. These two gentlemen  com-
whether we shall have liberty or slavery, let; menced a very interesting conversation in
slavery go.” | the French language. I found him to be not
A Guwern oF jonly a very intelligent man, but quite a
, . ol tlinguist. His history is so remarkable that
There is a rumor from Washington to the ; thought its narration would be acceptable
effect that Gen. Fremont will soon be as- to the readers of The Pine and Palm.
It is claimed by some; His appearaneeis rather unprepossessing,
of his friends, that what is called Gen. Sigel’s | 214, viewing him from a phenological stand-
campajan plan is precisely similar to the one , Point: he would not be regarded as the pos-
Ampargn plan is precisery SMMUAr fo Une One’ sessor of a very brilliant or active intellect.
marked outand about being executed by T're- i But when he opens his mouth to speak,
mont, when he was removed. The general every line of his very black and tattcoed
features of the plan were the sending of face beams with uncommon attraction, and
15,000 or 20,000 troops to Missouri for the : his eyes sparkle with a vivacity and intel-
lectuality which tell you that their possessor
: : ,has visited the Pieriap spring and drank
the rebel generals, while the remainder of the | deeply of its pellucid and refreshing waters.

RetcRNING Reasox.—

signed a command.

protection of the people, and the repulsion of

lasted, our eause be ruined, and the
i Union be prostrated beyond the possibility of

Our expenses are enormous, and con-
stantly upon the increase ; the Nation is fast
iverging towards Laukruptey ; indeed, from
the statements made in the halls of Congress,

large, are heing more industriously ferreted
We with
pleasure announce the encouraging prospect,
and trust it will not prove illusory.

out, than at any former period.

communication with the North, and

leave until all of his plans are perfected.

——It is being more than whispered that

those who have the management of nililary

quence of the conduct of the Newspaper cor-
respondents, Com. Dupont has prohibited all
no

steamer or sailing vessel will be permitted to

Tne Butter Exprprrros.—Those having
immediate charge are again actively engaged

of persons released from slavery during the
present war for the Union.”

There are, according to Carleton of the
Boston Journal, between 1,000 and 2,000
slaves in Gen. Buell’s camp, (iXy.} Some
of them sent there dy thetr masters for safe
keeping. Slaves escaping to the camp are
given up on the requisition of their masters.

force pressed forward speedily, formed a
junction with Buell in Kentucky, and then
pushed on to Nashville and Knoxville, in
Tennessee.

As Migur Tlave Bees Axticrpatep.—
The action of the Seeretary of War, in ap-
pointing a commission to visit the Prisons of

' ‘The name of the subject of this little nar-
-rative, is NicHotas Sarp. He is a native of
| Central Africa (Soudan.) of the kingdom of
: Bornu. and is twenty-four years of age.
i When he was ten years old he was stolen
and sold to Egypt, thence to Tripoli, thence
ito Feazan, to Syria, Asia Minor. and Turkey.
iIn Turkey he regained his liberty. From

} by 1
the derert. i

within the past week, we are already cn-

All these people are capable of civilization,

perhaps not of the highest type, but at least | culphed in insolvency ; and yet we have ac
complished little or nothing in the way of
For months

of a respectable form. It must be a Chris: |
tian civilization. Mahometanism has injured |
their tempers where it has improved their |
manne nd it has not benefitted their mor-

a's

terminating the great rebellion.

ra:

rs; a

ws an woe
and other enormities. They need a civiliza ‘most amorous to be |
tien which shall repress their vices, humanize |

their dispositions, and prove a bond of peace ;

| we have been all but ready, yet never quite
So, an increase of wealth in their pagan | ready. With halfa million of men in arms,
state. has only increased their folly, cruelty, ! awaiting the conflict, eager for the fray, al
ed on, we are still
holding back for some unknown, ungucssable

affairs, have no well digested plan ef opera-
tions; but that the commander of each di-
vision acts, in no small degree, in accordance
with the dictates of his own judgment, or to
carry into cflect some preconceived notion ;
hence so many contradictory proclamations
and conflicting projects. Whether this be so
or not, itis quite certain that Gen. Sigel has
a plan, and one which, if acted on, would

in getting on board, troops, munitions, and
various stores preparatory to departure from
this port. On the Sch inst., the ship Un-
daunted, Capt. Elliott, left for Ship Island,
with a large amount of stores, and 150
horses, ‘The ships North America and
idaho cleared the same day, both fitted tor
the accommodation of troops. ‘These, with
the Ocean P —, sailed on Saturday. Other

* ;
vesselev” n idvanced state of prepara-
F S
tion, Yo

None are allowed to leave of their own
accord. Once within the lines, they are
compelled to stay until claimed,

‘he sume informant states that, after the
Mill Springs’ battle, a large number of slaves
came into Gen. Thomas’ camp, their faces
radiant with joy and expectation ; but they
were all ordered to depart, and threatened
with punishment, “tf they did not return to
thetr masters 2”
The preceding are instances of Govern-
Nu-

and amity. ‘Then their facilities for improve- | reason ; wailing, Micawber-like, for some-
. . 1 . .

ment and happiness would be immense | thing to turn up ; what, we know not, what,

Their teeming soil would support many , ‘no one can divine, but a certain misty some-

its present occupants, furnishing them with thing; in the meanwhile, our monster force

the richest fruits of nature, and producing |. . : j bled by j

the tagst valuable articles of commerce. Cot- | 15 wasting by disease, being enfeebled hy in-
action, demoralized by camp life. The

ton, indigo, coffee, sugar, rice, vegetable ot], | life.
witl) il-con-

probably effect grand results. His plain of
operations would be to make a rapid series of
movements against the enemy, without giv-
ing them time for rest. or shelter ; he would
press forward upon Nashville, and Columbus,
destroy the communication between Nash-

ure,

for notoriety, —
fact that the a
tion.”

&

Much teh, disappointment and chagrin
of the rebels, the Merrimac has proved a fail-
The Norte Day Book condemns two
of its contempors’ +s, for having “in their thirst
st before the publie the
‘imac has preyed an abor-

ment non-interference with slavery.
merous eases of the like kind are constantly
oceurring ; clearly evineing the truth of the
oft repeated declaration of slavery worship-
pers, advocates, and defenders, that this Is
not a war for emancipation, but for the
subjugation of the eolored race, and with the

. «s Turkey be went to Russia, where he re-
Rebeldom, and ascertain the condition of the ‘mained during the Crimean war, after which,
Union soldiers therein confined, has excited ‘as the valet of an accomplished Russian
the iraseibility of some of the enemy, who prince, named Troubetzkouy, (who educated
The | him,) he travelled throughout Eurepe. In
oen -

Norfolk Day Book remarks, “the exquisite ! December. 1206, he left England for the

ae “ . . United States. Portland, Maine, being bis
modesty of this proposition entitles Mr. idestination. After having visited Bosten,
Stanton to the reputation of being the most | New York, and other commercial cities, m1
impudent man among all King Lincoln’s | company with a German merchant, of con-
siderable wealth, he went to the beautiful and
fertile island of Hayti, where he remained
six months. His experience on that island
was of the most pleasant character. In speak-
ing of its cloud-kissed mountains, its deep,
broad valleys, its river, woods, and plains, be
becomes so enthusiastic, and so anxious for
his listeners to appreciate his utterances, that

view it as a piece of cool effrontery.

proverbially impudent subjects.” $

Next week we will commence the
publication of one of the charming Noveleties
of Balzac, who has been styled the Dickens
of France, but of greater genius than the
Englishman. It will extend through four or
for

spices, iMireeeousrysenteno7) tpauical fees | Pavenean mowers are eatallag
could be grown to almost any exten’
taight be desired. The present ex) Ap)

sige we susteiicery rmavivaseu,

Then their imports would be on a similar | recognize the independence of Rebeldom.
stale of magnitude ; for they generally desire} Jf, after such an cnormous consumption of
foreiyn goods. The Christianization of Africa
would enrich the mercantile countries of Hu- | . .
rope, and greatly add to or cheapen some of j llect, arm, and equip the mighty force
their huxurics.
Jat: discoveries have nearly completed
our knowledge of the main features of Afri-
can cesvyaphy. be the authentic accounts ; ;
Ca Rutan, uy the authentic eee "he for the purpose, will prove abortive ; and the
Niver, the Lake Chad, the Zambesi and its | Wer course will be to make a merit of neces-
tributaries, and the lake regions. ‘The vex- | sity, relinquish all further exertions to bring
ef question about the source of the White back the reercant States, aud acknowledge,
Nile and the Mountains ofthe Moon remains ‘
to be decided ; but this refers to a very sinall |

wereserusy

time, such a vast expenditure of means to

which has been gathered, we are too weak

successfully to contend against the enemy,

all onr efforts to acquire sufficient strength

or pronounce them to be no longer a part of
Let us do this without further

ARAN Menten eee

part of Africa. It ig ascertained that the
centre of the continent consists of immense
plains, watered by large rivers and Jakes,
with an oceasional hill or ridge of low moun-
The level country has a rich soil, in-

tains.

terspersed with vast forests and portions of!

de-ert land, On either side of this iiamense
region, between it and the coast, are ridges
of mountains, which are highest on the cast-
ern side of the continent Abyssinia is bor-

dered on the south by the higher “Mountains |

of the Moon.” Subsequent ranges decrease
in attitude, till they again rise near the coast
in Mount Kenia and Kilmanjfaro, the latter
Of which is capped with snow, though only

two degrees distant from the equator, Next
follow the hills of Csumbara, which extend

from the coastinward, Below them are the
Negara hill4, running ina long ridge from
north to south ; which are succeeded hy the
ranges crossed by Capt. Burton and Speke,
ying farther inward. ‘The hills of Babtsa-
and those nearer to the Zambesi are less ele-
vated, and some of them are known to abound
in cous and valuable minerals.

South of the AZambest, a donble range of
joountaings extending ¢outhward — aceupies
nearly the eastern half of the continent, biv-
ing the district of the Lake Nyami and the
Kalahiuri Desert on their western side.
Afterwards, one great range runs near the
cuakt towards the Cape. The western coast
of Afries is alsa bordered by mountains,
whieh seldom branch far into the interior ;
though we lave found that they do so near
the equator.

What will be the future of Africa, when
its rivers and Jakes shall be eovercd with
ateamboats, and its rich plains intersected by
railways—-when the dahors of the engineer
and avriculturist shall have rid it of pestilen-
tial misnina,---when its fruitful coil shall sup-
pork a teeming population, and abandantly
furnish those commodities which Hurope
desires to import 4

[wie exp. |

wee g wom ee

Avkican Ain von Ouniarianizino
praxk.—In a discourse on missionary work,
delivered not Jong since at Bb Paul, Minne-
sata, Ly Biehop Whipple, he staterd that the

Is-

funds by meana of whieh he commenced his
missionary Jabors with the Dakete Indiana,
went by the native converts resident, ut

Palas, A frien.
sone publication the Bishop's appeal for ns
risttnce, and stimulated wy gratitude for the
religious benefits they had enjoyed, they nade
him» remittance, which constituled the first
jeer inerns applied ta the Dulcota imis-
sion. hat will the revilerg and contemmers

Were

Cape They had een in

j the Cnion.
i procrastination, or avail of all the means at
our disposal, and one of the most effective re-
‘ynains as yet unavailed of, and resolutely,
| perseveringly, and unremittingly press for-
pward aod carry the war to, perhaps its bitter,
jwe trust its glorious termination.

We apprehend that much of the delay and

dilatoriness attendant upon our war opera
tions, is rightly attributable toa fear upon
ithe part of Gen. MeClellan, lest he should
Lose the high oilitary reputation whieh: has
heen conferred upon him in advance of its
being earned. ‘This is natural, and a due
degree of precantion is commendable in him;
bat when carried to the morbid extreme, that
jit seems now to be, itis highly reprehensible,

jand should he sternly rebuked, Tis reputa-

tion, doubtless, is dear to him; our rights
and liberties areas dear fo ous; and if the
one or the other must be saerificed, which we
Delieve not, let it he the former, not the latter ;
perizh the individual, for the salvation of the
community. ‘Phere is a homely, Init ex-
pressive saying, “nothing venture, nothing
have.’ We would commend this adape to
the careful consideration of oar Commimder,
in the hope that becoming impressed with its
truthfulness, heanay arouse, sink self) and
Headily keeping in view his country’s honor
Jind fair fane, boldly and nobly lead onward
to yietory or death. 4
We have b

of a soldier is implicitly to obey orders.

1 woe >

edn told that the first duty
It

id not for him fo git in jedyment upon the

orders, and ghey or not, as he may choose,
or Chink: best, or as whim or eaprice may
dictate ; sufficient is it that his superior has
sve the command; and stries obedience,
under severe inilitary penalty for neglect, i
demanded of hin. Or rather this was for-
werly the way of managing such alfiirs 5 but
we presume that, with other old things, dis
hat been done away, ond all bas become
new, Mor Mr. Dunlop of Kentuelcy, in the
comme of ne apeeeh before the flouse of
Representatives, a few days pines, sind that
five {Hinois regiments, when told the object.
of the war was to put down slavery, stacted
(heir rng, etating: that Chey were only enllel
ont fo mmppress rebellion, Ag wight natu

ally be supposed, some doubt was raved: is

toward the southeast, and) ano uy ore
tween the Tennessee and Mississippi rivers.
Such an advance movement, he says, with
100,000 men would render all successful op-
with

promptness and energy, it would throw the

position impossible. Carried — out

cnemy into confusion and distract all his

plans, A man must venture something in

order to succeed,’ §

a ae Se

——A movement is now being made by

memorials to Congress, publie incetings in
our large cities, &e., to have extra exertions
ust) to elect: the release of Col, Corcoran.
All such aetions, we think, unwise, and cal-
culated to prolong, rather than shorten, his
period of incarceration; and) very) probably
will agwravate, instead of anitigating, the
hardships he aay now endure. He and
certain other oflicers, it will be remembered,
were cast into felons’ cells, as bostaees for
the HLS.

condemned as pirates ; the threat being pro-

individuals tried in Com and
wudented, that in case the sentence of the
Court was exeented on the latter, the former
should at onee be subjected to as similar fate.
Government has seen fit fo alter its course of
procedure, and instead of holding these men
vs conviels, retains thems as prisoners off war.
Application bas in consequence heen made
to the rebel officials, to learn if they would
exchange Cols, Coreoran, fee, ail others
for said prisoners; and, as nicht bave been
anticipated, dhe answer is returned, ao,

Its now rumored, that Jail Davis threat-
ens to hang the above named officers anil
their associates, in ease we execute any more
of the Western bridge burners, and railroad
destroyers,

We think none too well of Davis to helieve
he would hesittte ao osingle moment, te
make such aaminatory prockunition, if by se
doiny, he dinagine, he ean alan us, or induce
us Co swerve from any fixed purpose, or yield
The latest

Corcorest will soon he

to wny exorbitant demand of his.
rumor ia (hat Col.
released, through the special efforts of See.

retary Stanton, §

tere

The London "Tines carrespoudent,
Russell, has postponed, for the present, his
Qraus-Atlintie trip. Et inay be recollected
that he advised his caployers, if Micon nud
this Clavertiment

Slidell were piven up,

would come to an end. Al-o, if January
passed by without ao Mederal vielury, the
Covernment woud be at oan end. Aasxtous
to inerense bis cabinet of curiesitiesy, hy the
addition of whatever may be obtained, either
rich, rare, or unique, he is now ta diligent
quent of the ead alluded tu, which would
forma vituable pecession to hin recherche
collection.

This modern explorer lax recently imiute
another great diseovery---via : Chat there ia
“an extroordinury lack of ordinary political

common Keave in the Admorient journals.”

of the black anan wuy to this t

to the necurney of tho assurtion ; whereupon

way avtaliiaonce_of

purpose of riveting the chains of bondage the

his eves, nose, mouth, hands, head. and feet,

five numbers.
tte he strigine. ta salroud noble -£

It is translated expressly

aMha Winy ”

we

Lycee

capture of Fort Henry,
is situated 5° miles from the mouth of the
Temiessee R.ver, aut was avery important
post to the e emy; the loss of it cuts off
communieativa between Columbus and Bowl:
ing Green, an” gives us free ingress to the
heart of ‘Tennessee. Gen. Tilghman, whe
was in command, bis staff, and 60 men were
taken prisoners, ‘The Tort contained 30
guns and 17 mortars, Outside of the Fort
were encamped 1,000 or 5,000 infantry, who
“cut and rug,” leaving everything behind,

ordnance stores. Gen. ‘Tilehman in sur-
rendering to Flag Officer Foote, observed,
“Tam vlad to surrender to so gallant an
oflicer.” ‘The Flag Ofheer replied, “yee do
perfectly right, str, in surrendering, but you
should have blown my boat out of the water
before FP oworld have surrendered to you.”
Whilst fully aware of the importance of this
vielory, we confess that we cannot exactly

8, with a cotemporary, how the closing sen-
tenee of Cen. Ualleek's bulletin,—that the
Klag of the Union will never bo removed
from the soil of ‘Teunessee— “indicates, in
some degree, the importance of the achieve-
ment of on gunboats.”

The rebels afftet to consider the eapture of
fort Henry, by our troops, no great: affiir ;
it was a kind of “one horse’? coneurn. ‘They
also consider the destruction of the bridse
over the Pennessee river, although au incon:
venienes to them, “not aaatter of my erent
detriment.”

sc

The Memphis papers berate Gen. Critten-
den violently for the rebel defeat at Mill
Spring, which they charge to his dranken-
ness ail treachery. ‘The Nashville Gazette
joins in the “hue and ery,” and thinks an
investivation will connect with the evime of
drunkenness, the greater: sins of treason,
treachery and cowardice, ‘The fist Reyola-
tion hadan Arnold—the seeoml revolution
may likewise have one,”

The Bowling Green Courier, in its ae-
countof the battle, says, Zollicoflor, on hein
recosntzed by some of the Uuionists, with the
most perfeat coolness, rushed tawards the
Pedern) column, and with his sabre, eat the
head of the Lénealn colonel from his
shoulders, Vhis wonderful feat of presti-
miuipdation must greatly astonish Colonel
Mry, the oficer decapitated, when made
kuown to hin, he little saspeeting that he is
now no better than torso, and must here:
after train with the “headless horseman,”

Major Wright’ informs Gen. Wyman at
Rolla, that he has satistietorily ascertained

including a darge and valuable quantity of

: : §
Mavis otiunsa, 3

Miscentanrous’ [remus.—The Washing-
ton correspondent of the New York live.
ning Post, says it is rumored that two or
three leading members of the House have
prepared speeches against. Gen. McClellan.
Faets unknown to the public have been gath-
ered, tending to prove the ineilicieney and
invompetency of the Commanding General,
The feeling ts so decided against him in intla-

up, as itis one of the most important fhets
of the time.

The President, it is said, has reeently
made, and announced, the wondertul discoy-
ery, patent long ago to all who exereise their
common sense, that the rebel Stites, having
abolished slavery, so fir as regards all xov-
erpmental relations, can make no chain for
restoration of fugitives, neither ean the United
States return (hem without enshiving tree.
men. $
The Maine Senate las passed a resolution,
2fted, in favor of confiscating, liberatins
amd also arming the rebels’ slaves, if it bea
military necessity.

Jon. ALS. Diven, M.C.,
son for no onward miligury movement, that
ho considerable foree ente be withdrawn from
the Potemae, without weakening our lines too
mueh ; of whieh our ever vigtlint foe would
immediately take advantage,

On the dth instant, Mr, Brieht of Tndiana
was expelled from the United States Senate
for treason, hy a vote of 32 to Lb

It is contilently believed that all water
communication between Mobile and New
Orleans has been completely stopped,

The local editor of the Richmond Maquirer,
who has been on a recent visit to Baltimore,
says, we fear with too mach truth, that more
than nine-tenths, not only of the Baltimore:
ans, butof the whole body of Marylanders,
are earnest sympathisers with Rebelde,
There are now xnetively employed at the
Spriueticld Acmory, 1100 hands, who have
manitactared, daring the past month, £0,500
muskets, and E1000 during the list seven
months,

Tho President has recommended a vote of
thanks by Congress, to Captata Satacel Be
Dupont, for his: services and gallantry dis-
played in the capture of the forts command.
ing the entrance to Port Royal harbor, Nov.
Tth, bS6t,

One of tho rebel papers. uider date of the
Oth instal, asserts that tthe Northern peo-
ple, the Northern Army, the Northern Navy,
weary of the conthet, openly vontess that oa
tow more defeats must convert them inte ad-

NY

wv

ives US a re

the rebel foreo under Price at Springtichd,
Mo., does nat exceed 8,000 or 10,000 men:
all State troops, To is praparing to decamp;
his foraging parties are soizinge a great many
Union men aud destroying their property ;
and unless our cavalry and artillery are
pressed forward, he will assuredly areape.

‘Proops,—infintry, artillury and eavalry-—

vovates of nv prompt recognition of the South
ern Governmont. Shas dedtlom advances,
and it will net he astounding if) ino a tow
months, Seward and his philosophy are nega
Hived so complotely as te: effect thoiy banish
ment fran America,”

At Searetary Chasy’s reeaption, on the
evening of the Gah instant, dhe Huteliusans

are daily arriving at Cairo, Wh Phe forees
now nssembled there are estimated at 85,000
to 10,000,

Cienernl Elunter has deelaved inartial lew
in Kansas, and anneaneed that jayhawhking
must ho put down. Pho Seoretary of New
Mexico lua arrived at Leaveaworth anid re-
ports that martin} law hos been provloimed
inthe Territory, ‘Pho rebel Gon, Sibloy is
marching upou lort Craig with 200 ‘Toxans
and artillery, A Targa fores is alsa anid to
he advaneing on Fort Union. ‘the teins

Wore presen, anil sung to gronk necoplinee,
among other songs, tho one tor shying which
they wore expelled Crom onr camps across the
Potomne,

Mason and Slidell arrived at Southampton
on Che 28th alt, and pracecded at anen to
Londen; whenee Sliloll took his departure
for Paris, ‘Tho London ‘Tinos says, although
thore isa large party ins the House of Com.
mond whieh will andoaver to urge upon Gov.
ernment a potioy of interlorones in the
Anorion stragele, the erveyx will do well

ential quarters, that it is useless to cover it |

Vhe Lie auw 2 2" .
dveyuiutiune ut afay TIS ERAT half published.

Baek numbers ean be had
each, both of the Africans
Naytian Revolutions.

he Din,

Che Dine,
MEETING OF COLORED BOSTONIANS.
Reported exptessly for The Pine and Palm.

A public meeting of the colored citizens
of Boston, convened at the Twelfth Baptist
Church, on the 20th ult. ; to listen to an ad-
dress from C.1L.. Remond, on “the Duty of The
Colored People in Relation to the Present
| Crisis” The meeting was organized by the

at three cents
at Home and

p-Tpetual motion.

Thave said that he was educated by a
Russian Prince. He converses quite fluent-
ly in the French, Italian, German, Russian,
and English languages. He reads Greek
and Latin well, Tregard him, all things
considered, a very remarkable young man.
There is nothing finicad or supercilions about
him. His brawny arms, hard bands, and
coarse apparel, tell you that he isa hard-
working man. He saws wood, works on the
boat, porterizes at some store or hotel, any
thing to make an honest living. He says
this is a very bad country for the black peo-
ple to live in, and he must soon get out of it
or his mind as well as his bedy will be
!wretched. Would that colered Americans,

appointment of Robert Morris, Esq, 28} gonerally, were possessed of the elevated

Chairman, and Mv. Bannister as Seeretary.

Monroe, opened the meeting, hy sn earnest
and fervent prayer. After whieh. by urgent
request, he consented te give a brief state-
ment of his experience and that of his fellow-
sufferers, now confined at chat Fort. He had
i been informed, he said, that it had) been
chargod that the refugees were idle and did
hot want to werk. le would: deuy chat
charge, They were pertectly willing to work
for compensation. They had already worked
six months for the Government without pay,
and even without actual coniforts, so far as
bedding was concerned. ‘They also needed
books and instractions ; Qhey were very anx-
ions to learn how tor ead and write,—both old
and young. ‘The old man of sixty-five years,
Was just as eager to learn as the litde boy of
five years old.

His health not permitting him to speak te
then longer on the present oceasion, he hoped
to have the pleasure of addressing them
at some future time.

Mr. Remond then addressed the meeting.
Ho regretted that, the gentleman who pre-
ceded hint was net in re condition to enter-
tain them ato greater length, with bis very
intevesting remarks. Ele did not wish to
have what ho should say, regarded as a lee-
ture, but simply as a friendly aud familiar
conversation, Ho hetieved the dine had
cone to be pracdical.

course on the part of the colored people,
any nmi who would prepose any detinite |
eotrse of netion, on the part of che colored |
people at the present crisis, would: be rash.
Hteowas all important, that the strietest eau
tion should ho oxereised against saying or
doing any thing rashly, less the course of tiber-
ty be damaged thereby, Ule would say, how-
ever, inany event, if was dhe duty of the
colored people to remain in dis country,
Thongh be would have it understood that im
view of present cireumstances, ho was by
no omeats: happy. Phe whites iusist upon
our incapacity, Bat the people of this
country, have no right to pass upon the
oluvacter of the colored people, until they
have given them a ebanee to establish a
charactor, Notwithstanding the cantinaed |
injustics of the white people of this country
towards the colored people, ho detied the
Boston Hovald, or any other pra-stavery
paper, to prove dhatoany black man had }
vither tummed rebel or traitor, Elo would
urge the necessity of pationce and porsever-
wneo,——-God’s hand was moving in the afirs
of the country, and his only hepe was in
him, Tho colored people ave a serious ole-
mont in this conntry,—as humble as we may

§

we lve becoming trenbloxomo,

to maintain a masterly inntivily.

be, tho dificultios existing cannot be adjust

Mr. Davis, (a contraband) trom (Fortress

he considered as advising any particular |

aspirations which distinguish this native Afri-
ean! We would net fold our arms together,
and be enamored with the duleet tones of
that “hope on, hope ever” instrument, the
strains of which make glad the city of our
oppressor’s god,

Menonas Sarp intends to leave for Hayti,
in March or in’ May. May success: attend
his efforts to elevate himself and his race !
There no white man’s tyrannical mandate can
clip the wines of his lefty ambiden. There
he ean, by industry and perseverance, reach
the mountain top where his lofty aspirations
love to linger, ‘There his thirsty seul may
drink of the pure and erystal stream of Lib-
erty. ‘There the sunlight shall flash upon
and fertilize his every energy. Again, with
wy whole heart, say, may suecess attend
him!

Adrian, Mieh., Feb. -£. 1862.
¢—oem 2.---

Tar Reneiexs or tae Querx.—Qreen
| Victoria is said to be a Swedenborgian, and
ithe report is that her Tate husband died in
ithat faith, A letter in the Montreal Herald
[ says:
| Prince Albert, like the Iste Duchess of
i Kent, King Leopold, and others of their
[serene and reyal relatives, was a believer in
ethe Swedenborgian interpretation of the
Bible. Neither he nor the Duchess of Kent
Hunderwent the ministration of any clergyman,

i

Le did net wish to j administration of sacraments, Se. in their

Hast moments, though they both habitually
jtook the counnmunion at Easter. Tis said
that the Queen has also adopted the peeuliar
views of religions philosophy propaunded by
the learned Swede sand itis hinted that the
unhoped for calmness and resignation with
whieh she has bitherto borne up under the
irreparable loss: sho has been so suddenly
called upon to bear, may possibly be due to
the consoling character of tho convictions
thenee derived in regard to the nature of the
transition that the world calls death, and
which are usually found: to exervise so pow:
ortul an intluence over the minds of those
who become conversant with the works ot
the author referred te. Uf sueh really bo tho
ease, and onr excellent and beloved sovereign
ean tind, in’ the views reformed) to, any sus.
taining consolation under the griovous soroow
that has darkened all commg Christnas
seasons for the royal hearth of England, the
fuet could hardly bo regretted by tho mest
orthodox of her Majesty's leyal and attee-
tionate Tieges.””

Many of tho clergymen of the Church of
England are reported to be of Cho samo way
of thinking; as is also tho ease with our

on

worthy codditor who has: special cl arz> of
owr outside form,

“A LEARY FROM PUTLADELPIUTA.

Partapecenta, dan. 30, 1862.
nditorsof The Pine and Palm: Contrasts

rene

To the
onen su. gest things to which they are dissimilar, as

resemblances do the objects to which they are like,
Where the rmpression made had been perma:
nent, Memory, by very coutrast,
rtof stereoscopic view, in whieh

the mind's eve as
the ever of dissindlaricy, Hke chatoof dight and
shade, brings things far distant or long past vividly
before us.

On this principle, the Babylonian regularity: of
this city reminds your correspondent: ef the laby-
rinthine perplesities of the throughfares in’ Bos-
ton; and its) scrupulous cleanliness and freedom
from sntfocating odors reeall, with a grateful sense
of relief, the steneh and filth in which Uackley
compels tax-ridden New Yorkers to live and move
have their being. T onoriee that the care of the
municipal authorities for pedestrian comtore never
flags; and that the provisions tor the public welfare
al larze and inereasing—that is, for the majority,
those having skins not colored like our own, The

various lines of city railroads which thread the .

principal streets and intersect each other ar right
angies, area great advantage to the public; ver, in-
telligence, refinement, respectibility, even wealth
jtself—which to an American eve usually covers all
defects—if it does not wear the livery of a white
skin, is restricted to the front platform of the cars:
and to the soviety of the driveraad condactor; and
may net, under peril of insult and outrage, seek
cither shelter or rest within the enclosure sacred to
the high-caste mortals aforesaid. [do not wish to
bring avviling acensation against this city of pa-
ternal amity, but it strikes me that the odions dis-
crimination to which Dhave just alluded is inter:
nal rather than paternal—that although the com-
panies’ Maes may be righ, their conduct towards

us is notsguares and thata decent regard for the
commonest principles of justice should prevent so
gross a Violation of them in the persons of the most
defenceless chiss of citizens in the community; to
call it cowardly is too mild a term,

Posterity, unless the foibles of our aze obtain an |

immunity trom exposure over the inconsistencies
ofthe past, will be ashamed of the absurd cricntar
distinctions which at present determine, by the prs-
mentary tint deposited in the rete mucostum, Whether
N man or woman may ride ina pultic conveyance,
enter a place of public resout, or enjoy the advan:
taves of institutions which his or her money ¢un-
I

“Weep not that tle world changes—did it keep

A stable, chanyuless state, ‘twere cause indeed to

Weep.

tributes to sustain.

Bur changing the thread of my discourse, so as
not to spin tov long a yarn, [would suugest, if
this letter prove duller than msual, that: you aturib-
ure it to the depressing influence of the weather.

y
ud

So much water has quite weakened my spirits, and
Gitre novs Lhave had to resort toa Circle for the

trenathening them ; not possessing chiir-

purpase

vovant powers, however, [did not see anvthing

questionable, although the circle, as to its compeusi-
Me and disposed to com
raps; and

tion was decidedly spirituc
nunieare. But, f heard numerous
sounds, &s from a multitade of silvery voices, filed
tl
murs iuteriningled with peals ofimerry laurchter. I
spacense the members of the circle of decep-
tion, but candor compels me to admit that their
Operations if not siinulated were at least semniag.

Lines to a departed? one, and some verses by an-
other man, evidently composed under exciting cir-
cumstances; comtnunicated to the Circle
thouzh a medium chosen for that purpose; strange
as it ma’ appear, the medium referred to had never

ie atmosphere with puisations of metodious mur.

t

were

heard the poctry before, although others present

hal. The ladies being all seed up, your humble
servant took a piece of cake, loukel into a glass,
smnifed and came away in high spirits. N. B. To
prevent missapprehension, I would state that the

S¢TY,

rare call ap to |

| NEW YORK CHY NEWS.

Graxp Coxcrenr,—Gn Wednesday evening, Qie
Sth inst, a grand mmnsicaland literary festival was
given in the Zion Baptist Chureh, of this city,
punder the auspices of Madame Mastan, anda
The pro-

numnber of other Jadies and gensemen,
gramme consisted of a fing selection of suitable
P pieces, and most of them were exceuted in a very
vata, a Scottish

reXeellent manner, Anaria, a ¢

song, and some other pieces were given by Madame
‘Maznan ina style which we have seldom heard
surpassed, and which elicited the marked applause
of the audience. To the Misses Vojelsane, great
praise must be awarded for the chaste manner in
sallotted to them,

Uwhich they sang dhe several pice
Miss 0. Powers, who sang two sotos, was very
Swell received. Inthe course of the evening, Mr.
G. Rodee defivercd an address about “Cheerful
Both efforts prov:

People,” and gave a recitation.
ed beyond doubr that he is possessed of cornic
powers of a very high order, and on the stage he
would soon become atirstelass comedian ; but we
think thatthe setection of a hiymn to exhibit his
capabilities was in very bad taste, and must have
‘proved disagreeable to many of the audience, A
‘duet by Mr. James Spelman and Miss 8. Vogel-
sang Was most loudly applauded, and encoerd no
‘Jess than three times £0 The Srar-Spansled Banner
owas announced as the concluding performance of
the evening ; but towards the close, Mr J. W.
‘Jacobs, who ably officiated as master of the cere-
monies, came forward and said, that so Jomy as
there was a shive in the United Stites, (hat was no
sung for colored people to sing, but they would sing
one which was far more appropriate,—"‘ Where
Liberty Dwells there is my Country.” This brief
address was received with loud cheers, and the
sone Was viven by Mr. dames Spelman in splendid
" stvle—the performers and andience joining hear-
-tily in the chorus, Altovether Che cotivert: passed
oY ina highly satisfactory manner, and re-
flected credit upon the ladies and gentlemen who
Mndertook its management.
i ACADEMY OF Meste.—On Friday evening last,
Donizert’s charming opera of Linda Di Chamounix
Was wiven to avery wood howse., “This is one of the
author's latest productions; and its store of ao mind
overthrown, cannot do otherwise than) suggest an
expression of regret that a man who labored so
Jonw for the wrativication of the pttolic, was debarred,
in his later years, from the mental enjoyment of his
/Wellourned reputation. ‘The Opera was compose
by command of the Emperor of Austria, for the

idratian Opera Honse at Vienna, where it was. first

actel in Isf2. In the season of 1842-45, it was
produced, with great suc at Paris. The Linda
ot Miss Kellogg, if notas great a sneeess as her
Traviata, was a performance of even greater merit,

Sand the duetto—.t consolar wai Adretté si with
Sicnor Briguoli, in the first act, was sang with great
fecling and delicacy; and on this occasion Brignoli

“aut forth all his powers. This is one of the finest

pieces in the opera. Susini also dit fall justice to

the music of On the whole, the opera

“was admirably sustained.

his vole,

» Resvite or Capr. Gornpox, tub Siave-
Traper—Last Tharsday morning, dhe Marshal
veceived a warrant from the President, granting a
»Yesphte of two weeks to Capt. Gordon, ‘The Presi-
/dent gives the prisoner ne hope of receiving further
clemency, and states that the respite is sranted for
ithe purpose of giving him an opportunity of pre-
paring for death, which he had probably neglected
to do up to this time, in consequence of the hopes
and anticipations of his triends that his punishment
: Would be commuted, He will be exeented on Fri-
day, dhe 21st of February, between the hours of 12
Sand 3.
{ Tarn Wercutnson Famrey.—On Thursday eve-
ning, February 6th, the Hutchinson Family sang at
‘the Chareh of Paritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) for the
benefit of the Ladies’ Educational Union. The Rev.

i

only beverages indulged in on that occasion were Dr. Tyng delivered a pleasing address, in the course

Jemonad: and raspberry syrup and water, :

PHILADELPHIA LIBRARY COMPANY. |
heRev. Mr. Neal delivered a very fine lectur? be-

ony

Ron... on Tuesday evening last: 2...
ject “Mocal, combined with Mental Improvement.
The weather being stormy, the attendance wa
quite thin. Iwas gratificd, however, at secing the +

tev, Mr. Douglass and Messrs. Stephen Smith, W. |
Whipper and other !cading men, among the audi- |
ence.

After the lecture, the debate, to which I have be- '
fore referred, was resumed; bat without bringing !
any addidonal lightto bear ubon the subject. Ef
forts, I learn, are being nade by the Company to
secure a lecture from Gerrit Smith during the pre-
sent scacon: hope they may be successful, and |
that our people here may have an opportunity of |
gathering afew practical ideas, fromm that eminent i
philanthropist, relative to our duties and prospucts |

wee eee ,
t

1
j
j

in the present crisis. i
“We wait bencath the furnace biast
The pangs of transformation :”

are Content to
“Bnudure, and wait, and labor.”

i
we

Burd
each is: Hor shail we
our efforts he exerted to assistin effecting our des.
We turn to our Jeaters and

Kred transformation ?
avoniar aly ask, Sirs, what shail we do for the over-
throw of Slavery? So far the burden of their at
teraure: has oniy been the tantalizing echo--the
overthrow of Slavery,
CENTBASL PRESBYTERIAN CIURCH,

The inembers and cougregation of tbis boly had

a very pledzant redinion lastevening, in the base.

ment of the chureh, for the benefit of the Sinxinys

Notwithstanding the unpleasant state of
nionber pres

Fan.
the
sent and, thanks to the urbanity of the
the efforts ofthe commnittes of ladies having change
of the arrangements, the affair passed off very
The tables were well suppliel with a

re

ther, there were quite a la

vastor, and

aygresal iy.
variety of choice refiezhinents, and Phope from the
ith which vhey went down that the Sink-
The choir

rapidity w
ing Fond wi
ofthe church were present, and, assisted by a
radoteon, conteibaed] ty the enjoyment of the eve-
ning hy singing pieces of sacred inusic, Without
censorious, Pinuet add, that their am-
eded them to attempt too much, and

oy

perience a sudden rise,

intending be

bition to ye wt
fweuld sugecest that the sablime compositions of

Handel, Haydn and those other old mniasters whose :

works have rendered thers tminortal, should ever be
approached with Une revercuce and portorimesd with
that careful appreciation which their dignity r
quires. {tis better (a perform the simplest pices of
ynueie well, Than to atternpt an
only succeed in mnarcing its beauties,
Bintin, a COrres
tions thatio a certain chureh the others Sanday, the
singers mnighthave been heard proclaiming aeuri-

ons atel exeiting, bat not vers avreeable entoimo- Pof the conbeat City of New Yark patssemeers all
Juogica! pursuitin the following line ofa hyma: Tsaved. The drowning of Col. Allen, th Regt N,
“Aud we'll eateh the flee, LE Vo and two comrades, avcidental. “Ther: is an
And well catch the flee, Faverae of one death in each regiment per dav, of

And we'll cateh the fleeting hour.”
AENOB,

tawce .
Cononny Kixe.-- The new
fadama Uy ie engaged ian

LIGEMALITY OF A
King of Macagasen,

parifie revolution, which is eatcalated te see ue the ‘of Pennsylvania, and his Reports as Agent of
happiness and prosperity of his kingdom, Under

the guidanes of two Frenchmen, MM. Laborde
and Larnbert, the king las thrown open the entire
Saland to Kuropeans, and proposes to mike iba
free kingdom, The istand has hitherto been closed
to strangers, and the enpital, regarded a4 a snered
city, wasonly visited atrare intervals by Enio-
peanss bat now foreigner have perfect liberty to
catabiiah therselyes where they please, aud com:
meceial liberty Js granted to alls the conmequence is,
foreigners are hastening there te tale advantage of
these privileges,
great reforiia sinongat bla awa people, aud &
coursing cducntion. Ue has likewise abolished
the punalty of death.
we me 4 wom t oo
Disnowatic Kecarions wii Maver— ft is
reported that when the Hepublie of Maytl bb recog.
niet by the United States, President Getfrard will
send bither a white wun ta represent his Govern.
ment at Washington, ‘This may ben concession
tothos: Amenoan prejudices agninet blnek men
whiel sree much tiked of} and it aay, on the
other hand, be a hint foom the Vaytion Govern:
nent, that it would tke in dhe sume way to have
fea prrefadices reapected. Tf Gelfrard sends ws av
white Minister, surely we ean do no less thea send
6 black man as Conuoulestouer to Hayt.--New
York Leaning foat.

‘LETTERS FROM

.c question that lies nearest to the heart of ;
aber: in what direction shall |

intricate Gne and:
Speaking of ,

gudent of a Glasyow paper men |

The new king is alo making !

of which he set forth the objects of the Union, and
| warmly commended the ladies who had enlisted
| themselves in the praise-worthy effort of making

: rr rr os

ON soe (He Gauiers OF oo uscd or disabled
-ulunteers. The singing of the Hutchinsons clicited
enthusiastic applause throughout the performance.
Notwithstanding the bad state of the weather, there
was a vood house,

Tue Joux Brows Sose.—This song was sune
by nearly every sleigh-ride party, wio were out on
five evenings of Jast week in the great) sleighs of
the staze companies. Selklom, if cver, has New
York witnessed such a sight, or heard such a strain.
The wo hundred thousand, representing the heart
of the ,sang the sone which the Massachusetts
soldiers san on their march through Broadway :

“John Brown's body lies mouldering in the yrave,
But his soul is marching on.”
Path Pickwicn.
.

toe

A COLORED SOLDIER.

No

IT.

Gesboat SENTINEL, Pamlico Sound, N.C.)

| February 2, 1802,
i To the Baditors of The Pineand Pati: Wehave
Snot vet struck that decisive iow in this State whieh
itis our intention to strike,
the blow will be struck, and that: shertiy.
Jlay of tie
the enemy’s fortifications, wives rise, no doubt, to

Bit, depen upon it,
The de-
xpedinon, now within thirty miles of

a preat deal of surprise at home, where the firets
tare not known; but we, Whe are initiaced, wonder at
The

obstacles whieh have heretofore impeded the pro-

Snothing, beemmse we know the reason why,

grees ofthe Expedition, have happily been removed,

Owing tov

doultime, in getting the ves-
The channel way of this

was mnade before the 2
sels over the bulkhead.
bulkhead is shallow, marrow and tortaous—ander
the most favorable eiveumstances > scarecly an ineh
ene half feet of water

and can

ft was only dy the preatest exer.

nore than seven
bes fea in it
tions and perseverance, ail by cursing every pros.
sible expedient to provapt aecount, that oy vessels
of the heaviest draught. seme of theme draving
Sebht feet were wormed through this perplexing
Pyut. Gur vo,600 troops are ina very. satisfactory
Seondinion, all things considered, having been rather
P¢losely quartered on shipboard for Qwentyesix days,
We exnect to advance toamorrow, and sdll farther
“pollute the sacred goilof North Carolina, with the
tread of the Northern apndsills,” and with our ad-
Jvance, will, of course, be aehieved another glorions
Uvictery, to be added to those already won, and ane
eather huloin the decaying chain of despotioamn will

be broken. For the whieh we will pive God the

praise. Respectfully yours,
WER GE, Bh Rev,
PS. ‘Phe following casualities happencd to the

Expedition since leaving Annapolis: The total toss

hthe prevailing disense, the ienstes,

allan well,

w.
ear

|

{ oprnsosan.-- Dr. Be Sinith, Known to allot
{

!

our renlera, from his essays on the Colored People

tEanancipation iu that State, and to many of then,
‘personally, sailed from Boston, on Monday, in the
/ Anon Hieks, for Cayes, Hayti, Tle will contribute
deacriptions of the people and country of ayti to
The Pine and Palm. ‘The doctor took with him a
“Hocument having the signature of Mr. Seward,
(hat filled up in Boston: which gave the following
Sanering deseription of his outer mau:
“Ave S2 vears; stature feet 101-2 inches
| ngetiats); forehead high; eyes Uinelos nase
flat; mouth -targe; chin round; habe black;
complexion brown, fice loupe; coloved) nana.
This document alo characterized the Doctor 10s
“e citizen of the United States.” He regarded this
ax nddine insult te injury. ‘Phe Doctor Intends to
viet the entire Southern partot Hayti before set.
tling down, Many of our ficnds in Pennsylvania
await his letters with fatercst.

a
rf)

i
{ . wee :

| --~ TE yom desire to rend the most eloquent cs:
hany, probably, that was ever written by a colored

nnd you will

0
1380 ,

| Amenenn, turn to the fourth pu

THE PINE TREE PROMENADE,
Tho Mother’s Blessing.

For the [ine Tree Promenade.

i

Oh! my sent had grown so weary,
By its many cares opprest,

All my heart's high aspirations,
Languished ina prayer for rest.

Twas Hike a lonely stranzer,
Vining inn distant hind,

Bearing on his lips a dlaneuage
None around him understand.

Loneing fora clese communion

Wath some kindred mind and heart,
Bur whose hinguae is a jargon,

Past his skill, and past his art.

God in merey looked upon me,

Saw my fainting, pain, and strife,
Sent to mea dlest evanyel,

Through the gates of light and life.

Then my desert bloomed and blossomed ,
Beauty decked its deepest wild;

Hope, and jos, and peace, amd blessing,

Metme inmy first-born child.

When its tiny hands, so feeble,
Brought me smiles and joyful tears,

Lifted from my soul the shadows
That had gathered there for years.

God, Tthank Thee for the blessing
That at ast has crowned my lite,

Soothed its weary, lonely anwuish,
Stayed its fainting, calmed its strife.

Gracious Parent, shield and shelter
Tn thine arms my darling child,
Till she treads the streets of jasper,
Spotless, pure, and undetiled.
—Franxcts ELLEN Watkins HARPER.
“LIBERTY TO BE CHERISHED UNDER WILATEVER
FORM SILE MAY APPEA
Behold God's innumerable atrributes piemred
oucin the face of nature! Can you look but to ad-
mnire; but to feel your innermost self swell with
stvrons Cmotions and elevated desires.

|
|
'

y serious diflicultics, little progress |

love nature less and beauty more? No! inthe full-
tess of our hearts will we ever love her, even in her
meanestaspect. Behold the excelleney of Liberty !
Sallall will not bow allegiance to her in every
What, we ask, and where is Liberty chat
mankind should bow in reverence ather altar?
“Lcis the spirit that dwells,
lu the shring of a nation’s breast,
It breathes not, but its silence tells
Of the place of its sacred rest.”

It loves tobe where languishing rills play with
sweetbrenthed flowers. Where hoary monntains,
Freedom's sentinels, commune silently with the
heavens. Where the mighty ocean, which no man
has uuned, flows on with its ceaseless roar, Where
noble tees make with “the arched bow’ a temple
for the living God.
when she parted the Red) Sea that: [srae!’s host
might {ee from the tyrhnt’s yoke? As when she
left her shadow on Rome? or tlitted
among the classic shades of Gree e? As when she
inflated the Huns of Enyland’s sires, or swept the
eEotian harp in Scotia’s lovely vales, or on her
vlorious hightnuds?) Or when she would have re-
vived the latent spark in Erin’s unhappy Isl
When she entered France and mavde royal thrones
tremble, and excited the people with a setuse of
their rights?) Liberty shuddered and minuled her
tears with that bloody flood on St. Bartholomew's
Day when the people ia fit of desperation placed
in their cemeteries, in’ glaring characters, “Death
is an cternal steep.”

Yes! Liberty is the same now, as when she con-
flicted with oppression in the “Reign of Terror.”
Her end is ever holy though the means which she
somnetines cmploys may reselt most herridly.
All will acknowledge that Liberty, like the “pillar
that wasa cloud by day and alight: by night,”
hovered over the Pilgrim band who sought Hol-
Jand that they might there cnushrine her in the
sophie earh of velivion—ane who travelled thence

form.

Rnperial

cowards the setting sun, be ond the blag Athinde
to a wild land know almost entirely to them asa
chimera inthe brain of wilder speculators. Nor
do we doubt that Liberty hovered over Plymouth
tuck, while the prayers of “the truc-hearted” were
winged upward, and the choir of heaven joined in
the “anthem of the free’? Or, when Adains,
Franklin, Hancock, signed that glorious document
which might have been to them a death warrant.
Yet ‘tis strange, ‘tis passing strange,” that so few
so called patriots cau see the same spirit at work in
the slave dens of this slave cursed country. Liberty,
it has been adinitted, should be cherished, but not
in all her forms. Why not in all? Is she not
Liberty in her every form? Tlow is it What people
are sometimes enthusiastic in her praise, and at
other times cast her from them as a stinging viper?

pression’s inyriads? Conscience, that immutable
judyee of the moral questions of our lives, answers
in wonls tat send the crimson dye to their cheeks,
and demoniae light to their eves. “Liberty, glori-
ously radical, should be cherished as nich in the
everghides of Florida or Dismal Swainps of Vire
einia, as ander the purple and golden canopy where

f . . . noe . +
silvery Diana with her shining bests inspire the

taliaus to amake voerl the breeze with shouts of
‘Garibaldi,’ and Liberty triumphant over cdespo-
tin’ OO Why is it that American phitanthrophists
vivetheir forces, money, and tives to advance Lib-
erty’s cnitne in every cline, amony every people ;
vet willdraw back in the atitude of deteney when
her scourges are felt here, and stimiatice it ats “trea-
son in dhe direst degiee?’ ‘That Liberty must) he
cherished in America by Africans wits demonstrated

by Nat Turner; and has John Brown's echo been
obliterated from memory?) Nothin must be held
ty. When our dearest: interests ave at stake, we
tntat nets did) chav note commander ot: a large
When the enemy saw that they were about
they entoed the household and
snatched the only son, the idol of heir opponent,
nnd defiantly placed him in their foremost ranks,
But the brave Tell, hoarse with strong emotions,
cried: “Rire! Pwas a patriot before E was a father!
Jeommand you! ire!” Phe Swiss were victorious

army.

te be overcome,

asare nations always when they offer all upon the
altar of Trath, We, the oppressed ones of Ameri
ea, mitt have Liherty, even if ato

swords point; and we will ehevish it, owe ean in
no other way, by a series of bloody revolutions, or

obtaiaed

jusurrections,

Liberty is the breath of the eternal God, and we
will cherish it, thongh the American pation perish
inoseas of its own blood, “QooptLnn”

tmee >
A western clergyman in presenting a revolver
toa volunteer, said oo UP von eet inte a icbt place,
and have touse itask, God's blessing, if vou have
tine, bat be sre net te let your eremy eet the
startet you. You ean say amen after vou shoot.”

“Tiltake two childien, if beat hive ‘em cheap,”
atid atall Yankee, on entering an oyster cellar, the
other day. two children ?--what two children?”
“Why dain’t cotany iveel’ wel vour siznboard
reads “Families supplied,” dowt it? ¢' b want you
to nupply me”

Usorrsraxps Ptasinine A pood jake, says
the Svracus Standard, is rented of Miss G., oa
Jang bter loving, geod natured lass, who was spend
im the atternoon with awoneiedtor, and durin
supper, the conversation turned om hens, eyes,
Se. Diving whieh Mass Go, observed: that their
hens dil not lay scarcely any eves, and she coutd
hot telh the reason Why observed) Ma 2,
“Gay hens day very well, Dopo out amon then
alos every day, and ged eggs. MY yorvedotis 2?
way (he dust rejoinder, Uo wish you wortkl come
over and rin wath oar hens, a spell, Pins sare
father wont pay seu well for your trouble”
She'll do,

Waar Sie Dap te Warn oWhy, Bridget,”
sid her mistress, who wished to rally the pirl, tor
the wmianement ef the company, apo the fiamtastle
onmnenting of a dire pie Why, Dridget, did
vou do this? you're quite an artist); how did von
dee?’ “lade, anim, owas mevsell dant tid be 2"
replied Bridvet. “Bsa’t it pretty maga? fai tt
with your Gdse teeth, aan,”

Two omen, conversing: whout the Wehamer of
their wives, “Ah, said one,” with a sorrowful ox-
pression, Smndoe dea Tartar 2? Well? reptied the

Every part !
vor nature is not equally admirable; yet shall we

Is Liberty the sane now as:

i the pure gospel.

ray XN ’
AWAY DOWN SOUTIL IN DIXIE,
[From the Philadelphia Sunday Despatch.)
Tho Little Contraband--Literally True.
BY A SOLDIEG OF COL. GEARY'S REUINENT.
One bright October morning
(A storiny night was spent),
The cheering, warming sunshine,
[lumined every tent.

While polishing our ritles,
Befere the morning drill,
We saw a litte contraband
Approaching up Che hil,

The sentinel admitted him;
And walking timidly

He came to Captain Pourison.
Before his white marquee;

You might as soon with terror
Suike yonder flinty rock

As frivhten Aine with frowning look
Or inthe battle shock,

His sword, that gleamed in Mexico,
Oar pathway soon will tight,

When Geary and De Korponay
Shall lead us to the fight.

But should our ten in trouble,
Ora stranver need his care,

Just touch that manly heart, yowll find
A tender spotis there,

The nezro bay was soon at home
With merry industry,

And tilling up the intervals
With prank and dance and gtee,

With ebon face and woolly head,
Some called him “Dickey Snow,”

And others, ‘Every Merchant,”
And chased him to and fro.

Tut fear and damp of midnight,
When he from bondage fled,
Tlad nursed a fever in bis frame,

And now he drooped his head.

“My lad, Vil send you to your home
{ff you woukl like to go,”
The Captain Kindly said; but quick

The poor boy answered," No!

“Pin sick and want to be from home
In any other spot!

Though sick, that man would make me work;
Bat Captain, you willnoe!?

Ife died, and we have buried him
On vonder lonely hill;

Above him soars the raven,
Ur fits the whippoorwill.

His brother contrabands are here,
Aud shonkt the traitors come
To capture them, our Mnficlds
Shall seal cach biovdhound’s doom!

Ere lomg shall wave our signal
To chi¥ and shore and isle,

To rally allour piekets in
Prom many a lonely unile.

When marching close or skirmishing
‘Tbronghout the Southern land,

Camp Goodinan we'll remember,
And the lide contraband

PRAYER OF A CoxtTRARAND.—In one of Mr.
Lockwoud’s (missionary to the Ccontrabands at
Fortress Monroe) letters, he reports a portion of
one of the colored brother Carey’s prayers, thourh
he says itis impossible for him to give its force and
beauty, as follows:

/  “Y Lord, if you please, look down upon us this
fevening, [ pray, and give us a closing blessing.
i We thank and _ praise thee for all: that we have
heard from the tips of our Northern brethren, who
}have cone over the briny waters to. preach to us
L © Lord, though [ cannot read
thy word, Lthankgthee that thou hast written it on
the table of my heart, and given we an understand:
ing mind, and kept it blazing before my eves like
‘the sun. Yer, O Lord, [confess that we have never
{been thankfufenowteh for all die blessings. We
| confess that we are like the children of Esracl, ever
ready tomarmur and complain, But for murmur-
ings, O Lord you have given us blssings, and this
mikes us come tor more. O Lord, we believe drat
you have come to deliver your people. O trample
the secessionists under foot—ble: + the Union cause,
and right every wrong. Bless e President, the
Congress Hall and the Senate. Tp them to make
laws that shall be forthe good the Union, and
the freedom of thy oppressed ple, O Lord,

pray. Bless the army andthe + ers. Make them
Wise as aserpent, and Dokl ar rsevering as 2
lion, GH thy people are sbeebs

ut .

oo he he
evenine upon our dear brethern sters and
vhildren far away inthe home * Ae, especi-

“by the seces-
interpose, for

ally those whe have been car:
sionists—Comfort their mir 3, a
heir delverance, and ifthey areno Christ, bring
them in, QO Lord, FE pray, BReme or our dear
brother (Jocelyn) who has been vor us and is
about to feave; pres him on the thighty waters,
gud reward him for bis labors ofle ce, and remem-
ber our brother (Lockwood) who has come back to
us. Strengthen him in the inner and otter man,
wid give him erace and strength for sufering
Hime, that he may go inand out before us and do
husswood. And when yot have remembered all, re-
member sie, and after you have done arul sutlered
your holy will with me, please to receive me to
yoursel! O Lord E prays, through Jesus Christ onr
Lord. Amen.”
(from the Hoboken (N.d.) Circuit Judge, dan. 22.)
A Nerrian Trachipy.—A wealthy American

Isthe tauitin Liberty and her votaries, or in, Op: |

in hiher regard or interest between us and) Liber.

Pmnerchant of the city of New Oileans bad married
ha Create lady of foraine, aul with the estates: aul
serviuits, Came into possession Of a mulatto seams-
itress and: her daughter, a child of seven years,
J The gendeman was so much struck with the extras
ordinary beauty of the ehild, whieh lad the purest
Italian te. rested complexion, that he resolved
to save it froma lite of degradation which was he-
sore dt, and to free itand educate it, He sent the
child toa Northern school, and there she remained
nati) her sixteenth year--by all supposed to be a
patrician Creole maiden. She Iiknew not to
vihe contrary, so young was she when sent to the
D North, Leloved by all her companions, the idot
of the fasticute, and caressed by every one, she lett
it, tocretamn South, as she supposed, to the roof of
herunele?? A voung Louisitna gentlenum, who
bad seen ber in Phihetelphia, and loved her, and
was beloved by her, sourbht her hand on her return,
The mavriave dav was fixed, nay arrived, when the
nother, whe had been long sold away in C:
! Fourche interior, inorder Chat she might never ap-
i pearas a witness agaist her child, reappeared,
haan the bridal ball, i the very heurcatter: the
ceremony idl been performed, and claimed) the
tmavuiticent aad powniscrable bride as her own
dauebter-—a bound she by birth, and an African
by blood! "Phe scene, as deserihed by one who
wits present, surpassed the power ofa pen to por
firay. Phat nish, the bridegroom, after charging
}ihe adopted father of his bride with his zross decep-
(tion, shot himthrough the body, and disappeared,
Feareving, no one knew whither, his infamy wid bit-
her sorrow. The vext morning the bride was ford
Fadistigared corpse, in the saperb nuptial chamber
| whieh had heen prepared for her reception, She
Thadtaken poison. Edaeation, a eultivated mind
and taste, which oie her beuer understand how
erent was her deadation, now armed her Ian

}
I

phiiter recovered from his wound, and las pone to
the North, where be resides, buried in the deepest
sechision--the tesidag of his years embittered by
the heenest regret,
{From tho Chicago Tribune. |

A Shave wirth an Pon CoLban-- BEAR TEES
or Snavery. Sr. Louis, Jian iA few days
since, While Company Coof the lowadhl, ander com.
mand of Lieatenant Lithteswell, was in dhe occu:
paney of Florence, yiueding the North Missouri
Railroad at iat point a nero came dashing to-
wards the camp bout eleven o’eloek at nigh,
mounted upon a bigh spirited horse, Lhe was about
to pass the erard, who spring forward and enughe
the bridle-rein of his horse and stopped hin. ‘The
negro immediately threw bhitmsclf from the animal,
mid ina cringing, obsequions mmnner, observed:
“Massn sover, please let me go in camp and see the
Hiney sover.” The guard dntormed bim that they
were lowa soldiers, and desired to know what he
wanted, He hung down his head for a moment,
Keeminaly masing over some disappolntment, and
then continued — "Massa, look atdis cothiry Use a
good nivger. Please fet me po be? The guard
now discovered chat he was ironed, and Lnmediatety
called the oftcer of the guavd, who took hing te the
viard-house. fa the morning be was taken before
Lieut. Lidhnewell, around whose quarters the whole
commuiid Taclassembled ; and never did men look
Vpon a seene more deyrading and humiliating than
Chat whieh was represented to him tothe person of
this she. Arowmd his acek was a bund of iran
hatfandneh diel, and nearly one and a hal’ inehes
wide, not locked, but seenvely rieeded, “Three iron
prongs of lightning-vod size were welded to this
Dand, at equal distances apart, anil arose above his
hend about aine inches, with an outward fnetinw
tien,

The jron tad lacerated bls neck, and the wounds
bad partintly heated, ander the protection te had
iiven to them by holding cap the bands with his
hands during the preeeding diays (hat le wis cou
coated dan corn-teld, but while rldliyg the horse, he
could not hol ie ap, and fohad openedt che wound,
from whieh there was bloody, mattery ooze trieke
Hing clown his broad shoulders. The men stood
Arona, gazing upon the scene before them tn wute
Wstonishinent, and itwas net ountll the negro re-
peated his petition two or Qiee times that they
conbl realize the fact that the erteloy of the seene
before them was diy act of a slave master lying bat
teshort distances from St. Louly, the enlightened en.

a

other, “mine is words than all dhat--lne da the

*

i find It bearing the enpion of "A Rovellls.”

eed NS SES:

Crean of Tartar”

porta of Mbsonrl. ‘The negro observed —" Please

Massa soger take dis collar off my neck. [’se 9 good
nigger; Vil do any ting vou want me. De Winoy
sozers cut de collar off ’er Ben.” The Lientenant
immediately ordered it stricken off, when an old file
Was procured, Which could not be made to work
upon the band only ina slanting manner. After a
labor of three hours, it was removed, the men tak-
ing turns about—tvo holding the band, white one
used the file. The band is now in possession of
Lieut. LimMnugwell, who helds it as one of the tro-
phies of the 3 Towa, and the negro is now officiat-
ing in bis quarters as a servant.

The master of this contraband resides about ten
miles from Florence. Ttappears that the negro had
carried (his iron band apon his neck about three
months, as a ptnishinint for assisiny his wife to
make ter escape into TMinois. Gen. alleck, or
some other prudent: commander, may order the
band re-viveted upon his neck, and the “property”
surrendered to bis master; but, from what E have
seen of the fowa soldiers, Pbelieve dat blood would
drip from the end of their bayonets before they
would do it. The contraband always gives the
Missouri troops a wide berth, and generally makes

fur the Thinois regiments, under whose br shield
of bayonets he feels secure, INFIELD,

ce)

Hoxorn axp Disnoxonr.—In the midst of the
violent outbursts of the Voice and Press in England
against us, on account of the Trent affair, it is with
ho little satisfaction we name among those ‘who
stepped forward in behalf of trath and justice, Mr.
Buxton, M. P., John Bricht, M. P., Riehard Cob-
den, Charles H. Spurgeon, Newman Dfall, (Row
land HHIs suceessor,) and Goorge H. Thompson,

It pains us to hear that whilst these men are using
the best efforts of mind and heart in’favor of peace
aul good-will to adf mankind, a@ recreant son of
New England, one who in former times buasted,
(with just pride,) of his descent from the oriyinat
Pilgrim stock, now presents himself in England as
the champion of Rebeldom. On the 19th Decem-
ber, (almost Foretathers’ Day,) Hiram Fuller, whom
the Government Organ calls “the famous New
York Editor,” delivercd a pubtic address in’ St.
James’ Hall, London, on “the Civil War in Ameri.
a. He was introduced by De. Charles Mackay,
with whom Fuller travelled about in this Country,
and with whom, or at whose suggestion, he went
to England, for the purpose of establishing a Yan-
kee newspaper. Dr. Mackay announced him tothe
audience asa Colonel inthe Amerioae Army; ete.
As was inquired of another New Englander, who
once flonrished largely in rezimentals, atthe Freneh
Court—where did be win hiis laurels?—to what
Army did he belong ?—on what tields gained he his
victories ?

We vive a few excerpts to show the aninias, and
the reritus of the speaker,

“Slavery was too reat a questien to he fippantly
disposed of at Exeter [or St. James’] [fall, or to be
wiped away by those who shed tears over the im.
inary wrongs of fictitious ‘Cnele Toms,’ and im-
vossible title ‘Topsys.’

The philanthropists of the North waged a fratri-
cidal war, that 4,000,000 of Afvieans might be set,
at liberty, to work, wander, steal, or starve.

He contd testify that a happier, healthier, better-
fed, or a more hihtly ked class of Jaborers than
the slaves, he had never seen, either in| Europe or
America. The master, who fil-treared his slaves,
was everywhere detested and avoided, and even the
women, who did so, were sent to Coventrys and
yet the Christians of the North refused to hold fel-
Jowship with the slavehokder.

After the tubing of Fort Sumter, he had never
heard from man or woman in the South a singie
word in favor of retinion. On the other hand, they
showed a Spartan determination to spend their last
dotlar, and to shed theiy last drop of bload, to re-
sistinvasion; and even the women stripped them-
selves of their jewels to equip the anuy of their
defenders.

Perhaps no army ever went into the field with so
arge a proportion of well educated and wealthy
sentlemen, as the Southern Army. Men like these
went into bate as if they were entering on single
combat. Women, priests, and bishops, were en-
listed in the cause, and even the slaves asked per:
mnission of their masters to go and fight the Yankee
Abolitionists,

There were there [at the North] swarms of con-
viets, paupers, and refugees; and there the right of
tree suffrage gave a power which was a dangerous
element in the State. Unrestricted suffrage was the
fallacy, When Pontius Pilate eave the franchise to
the people, they eleeted Barabbas, and from = that
day to this there were thousands of instances to
disprove the popwar dogma that ‘the voice of the
people is the voice of God.’

The Constitution of the Confederate Stites, as

. . m mi
with the yeady means of death ‘The unhappy

vranted, was far superior to that of the Federal
'

aintes.% twas particularly so, by lengthening the
Presidential term, and rendering the incumbent
incligible to reélection, and by appointing all Con-
federate Officers, save Cabinet Ministers, for life, or
curin,s good beluvior, Thus there was a check
on office-seeking, and on Me clumorous hounds
Jor office, [This mast sound pecualiariy rich to those
familiar with Fubler’s eareer duriug the Taylor, and
the Fremont: campaign, and remember the game
whieh he bagwed.| By this system of place-hunt-
ine, the North had become a nation of politicians,
without a statesman being lett.

Inthe North, peace-advocating newspapers were
suppress ’—suspected men and women were hur-
ried off to the bastinade.”

Mr. Faller closed his speech with the following
specimen of sapouitication, wider the mnetuousness
of which, we presume his audience departed ina
solf-satisticd state:

“Thomas Heod has said,

‘Give us anangel from Heaven—and despotism.’

England, to-day, under the benignant reign of a
Christian Queen, is realizing the beter late of the
poet’s prayer; and now, inthis: trying hour, when
the cloud of domestic sorrow hangs over her whony
God has elected to be the sovercizn of 8 great peo-
ple—Prince Atbert’s mourning willow, new the na
tion’s bride,--E trust there is not a heart in the
British Estes--no, not one in Christendom ---whielt
does nol beat responsive to the universal prayer,
“God save the Queen.”

A TOT OF CHEERS.

—A fideety dady was anee consulting Dr.
Abernethy, the famous Prelish physician. She
asked him what she should eat-- whether this, dat,
or the other would injure her,

'You may cat any¢hing,” said the doctor, “ex:
cept the poker and the bellows, for the one is tard
of digestion, and the other is) suppesed to be
windy?’

—A wae being asked the name of the inventor of
butter stamps, replied that it was probabiy Cadmus,
us he first brouhe letters into Greece,

— A war says that in jonrneving lately he was put
intoan omnibus with a dozen perseus, of whom he
did not know ao single one. Turning ao corner
shordy atter, bowever, the omnibus was tpset 5
“and then,” said he, TP found them all out.”

Goon Apvier.—An exchange remarks, patheti-
cally, “Have you a sister 2 {Phen love ant elerish
her with aoly friendship.” This is all proper
enone: but then it ease yeu faven’t got any
sister of your own, tike some other tellow's: sister
nit fove hers ‘The elect is just as good, and some-
times berwer,

A Canada paper says thatone of their ofvers on
he: that the rnilitia were to be ealled out, sent
his commission to his Lieut, Colonel, endorsed as
follows 2 “dear Curnel, fo beg to resine my cone
wvisshen, Being a disciple of Krist, i eannot take

up the sovd.””

A Coensev at Stace“ E say, Mr. Pilot, ain’s
you pong to stivtseon 2" said a cockney on board
astenmer Uvine-to dave a fog, As soonas the
for clears up,” replied the captain, Well, it's
sturlieht overliead now,” said the cavkney, "Ob,
yes," replied the captain, “but we are not going
that way.”

We have all heard of asking for bread and re-
ceiving aostone, but a yeung gentleman may be
considered. as st worse treated when when te asts
foray young huly’s hand and pets her father's foot,

Let the toast be, dear woman,” as the boarder
said when his landlady was about to remove the
phite,

- A Glaszow antiqanrian recently visited Cathear
Castle, and asked one of the villagers “Uf te kaew
anything of an old story about the building
“Ave, said the rustic, “there was anither vat
story, but ic fell down ting syne.”

—~A youn lady stilying Preneb, and duding: iat
‘Hette” meant “thie, tall somebody ina letter
that we had a great deal ef belle weather lately.

"There's a wont at dhe bottom of every mis.
cliet,” said doe Yes replied Charley,” “when 1
nsed to get into misehiel, my mother was at the
bottom of me.” Fran Chis, one may reasonably
infer, that the old lady went to the foundation of
the matter,

Panel's Minanae advises the farmers to sow
thelr Ps, keep their Us warm, bive their Bs, shoot
their ds, feed their Ns, look afer their potatoes’ [s,
and then take thely Es,

Two nequalutances meeting ona wer day one
fered the other,“ Bennutul rain this? fetehing
everything out of the ground.” Second: Mend,
dixeousolately : “Popo not, sir, hope not, got wo
whyvyes there, sive”

— Achap writing from Denver, says 2 On tho
oth of dune Cherry Creek hat a volume of water
suflelent to ron ageist mill, and) ten days: ater:
wards, twas as dry ag a doctrinal sermon.”

UG

.

THURSDAY, FEBREARY 6,
Sunate.—Mr. King (N. Y.) presented several
petitions for the emancipation of slaves.—Mr,
Carlisle (Va.) presented a petition, numerously
sizned by citizens of Boston, Mass., asking Con-
ress t0 leave the negro question alone, and attend
to the business of the Country.
Fripay, Fesrouany 7.
SENATE.—Mr. Wilmot presented several petitions
in taver of stave emancipation.
Nonpay, Funruary 10.
‘ATE. — Mr. Davis presented a petition of
zens of Maine, asking Congress to drop the
negro question, and attend to the business of the
Country.—Several emancipatory resolutions were

—Mr. Crittenden of Kentucky, by unani-
sent, presented a petition from citizens of
Philadelphia, proposing the reading of Washing-
ton’s Farewell Address on the 22) instant, before
Congress, the President and Cabinet, &c.; also at
the head of the armies, and on naval vessels. Mr.
Crittenden patriotically spoke on the subject, and
offered a joint resolution to refer the resolution to
a select committee of tive, and that they report
thereon. The resolution was so amended as to in-
clude the Declaration of Independence, and Secre-
tary Stanton’s order to the ariny after the battle of
Mill Creck, and then adopted,
Icespay, Fesruary Vt.

SENATE.—Mr. Jolinson, after presenting a peti-
Gon of Philadelphians for the appropriate observ-
ance of the 22nd of February, offered a joint rese-
Intion that the Houses assemble in the House of

tepresentatives on the 22d, and that the President,

Cabinet, Foreign Representatives and officers of the
Army be invited, and Washington’s Farewell: Ad®
dress be read, Mr. Hale thouuht it would be better
to hang some public robber, or shoot some cavalry
otlicer. The resolution was adopted.~Mr. Sumner
offered a series of resolutions dectaratory to the re-
lations of the United States with certain States.
aid on the table—21 ayninst 15.

{The Xew York ‘Tribune says their purport. is
that the Rebel States have committed suicide, that
with their death their rights in certain institutions
die, and that one of those institutions thus destined
to suffer death is Slavery.]

Aaytinn Advertisements,

Haytray ,

418 Beekinan street, New York, Feb, 1, 1862. }

ACK Emigration to Hayu.—Arrange-

" aay ments have been concluded by which
‘ ~eemicrants can be forwarded, in small
ee 2S companies, by revular packers, to all
of the ports of Hayti, at the same rates as are
charged in our chartered vessels.

A chartered vessel will sail for AQutn, where
preparations are being made for an American set-
Uement, as soon as acolony sufficiently large is
ready fur embarkation.

NEW YORK LINES,

The barque Mary Laxp (Danish), 285 tons bur-
den, Captain F. Patten, will sail from New York on
the 25th of February, for Port-au-Prince direct,
from which passengers will be sent to any port they
may select, She can accommodate trom 100 to 150
emigrant: pasgenvers,

The Josern Grice (British), Capt. Jackson,
will probably return about the 1st of March, and
sail abont the 10th of that month,

The He iUSTA, (British), Capt. Cutts,
return about the loth of March, and
sail Mareh 25.

All of these vessels are permanently fitted up for
emizrants.

They will sail for Port-de-Paiz, Port-tu-Prince,
Gonaives, or Miragodne, as cnigrants prefer.

PHILADELPHIA LINE.

The fine barqne AMERtcay, Capt. Christian, will
sail from Philadelphia, about the middle of April.
She will be permanently titted up to carry fifty pas
sengers. .

BOSTON LENES.

The schooner Fear ess, Capt. Adams, 122 tons
burden, will sail from Boston, Mareh 20, for the
port of Miragodne, direct.
three emigrants,

As the accommodations for temporary lodgings
at St. Mark are already inadequate to the unex-
pectedly large demands made on the Agents of the
Government there, all intending emigrants are ear-
nestly recommended to select Aquin, Cape Hayti,
Jaenel, Cayes, Jeremie, Mirazoine, Gonaives or
Port-au-Prince instead,—at all of which places am-
ple arrangements can be made for the proper re
ception of large numbers of them.

All persons desiring to sail at any of these dates,
are requested to ziveearly notice, personally or by
letter, to James Redpath, General Agent, Haytian
Bureau of Emigration, New York; or George Law-
rence, dr., Room 3, Anthracite Building, Philadel-
phia; or, if they live in Canada, to Isaac N.C

She can accommodate

at the Western Reaneh Bureau, Windsor ©. W

vraer toat passage
advance.

vt them may be seenred in
A. ENRY MELROSE,
Corresponding Secretary.
GOIROULAR.---No. II
GENERAL Lureau or EMIGRATION,
Boston, Dee. 17, 188h.
Bureaux and Agents.

The Corresponding and Shipping Burean of Emi-
eration is situated in New York City—temporarily
acdS Beekman street. AU letters of inquiry res-
specting [nyc and the Haytian Movement, should
be addressed to me, there. Persons in New York,
desiring information respecting Ilayti, verbally,
ean obtain ic trom Henry Melrose, Corresponding
Secretary there,

The Boston General Burcau will be situated in
the Washington Building, Room 7,221 Washington
street. Miss E. Howard, (who lived several years
as amissionary in Haya), will answer all the inqui-
ties of intending emigrants in Boston,

The Philadelphia Bureau of Emigration is now
united to the Haycian Consulate—Anthracite Build-
ine, corner of Walnet and Second streets, (Room 3),
Geo. Lawrence, Jr., isappointed ActingCommercial
Agent of Hayd) for Philadelphia, and Resident
Agent of Emigration for Pennsvivania. All friends
of the Movement, and persons desirons of emigre
ting, or of obtaining the reliable frets of Hayti, are
advised to callon him athe Bureau.

The Western Branch Burear will be sitmated at
the residence of sane N. Cary, at Windsor, Cauada
West. All persons in the Canadas, Ohio, Michigan,
or further West, who desire aid to enable them to
veach the sea-board, will receive it throngt Mr.
Cary, whom they must satisty as to their timess
tor the PWoneer Hite which every emigrant onght to
be prepaved for. Lhe will furnish them with tickets,
and notify chert wher to start. Persons living ia
the States shoild address Mr, Cary, Box 276, De-
troit, Michigan: but, if in Canada, deey should ad-
dress him at Windsor,

The Bureanx will be open trom 9 A. M. to 3 PL
M., every week day.

Files of The Pine and Palm will be kept. there,
together with such other documents as emigrants
inay need, .

The folowing gentlemen are the authorized tray-
vling Agents of the Movement:

For the Canadas, Ohio, and Michigan :—Wm.
J, Watkins. Ma. Watkins will lecture on Hay
daring Che nex ovo mondis, in any part ot North-
ern Ohio, Central Michigan, or the Canadas, on be-
ine daly notified of a desire to hear him, and chat
preparations have been made for his reception. Lis
address will be, Detroit, Michigan,

~The tollowing gentlemen are authorized Local
Agents:

For Maine: 0,0. W. Reeves, Porthind,

For Newark, V.2.0 CW, ‘Tolles.

For Troy, N.Y A.M. Biand,

For Conneetiont: A. a, Morrison, New Miford.

No other persons are anthorized to aehas Agents,

The sollowing gentlemen are organizing colonics
for ertignation to Tlayd in ae Spring, and all per-
sons with sitnilay intentions, in theiy respective lo-
calities, are recommended fo correspond With ment:

Joseph ©. Bustiil, Box 225, Harrisburg, Pa.

EOP. Walker, Toledo, Ohio,

Rev. JM. Williams, Ripley, Ohia.

Correspondents who wist to write fo ine on any:
thing conneeted with The Pine and Pal, should
address me, ad Boston: but,en all subjects con-
neeted with the Haytian Movement, at Vew York,
Correspondents should enclose a Uirec-cent post-
aye stamp, to prepay a letter in reply to Keir ques:

Gions,

Friends addressing meoon personal business,
should mark their letters, “prieate,? and direct
then to Heston,

There are now no more copes of ‘The Guide to
Haye, for gratuitous disteibucien; bac Haydian
Papers - Now 1, whieh contains a bviet synopsis
ofthe Gaide, will be sent to any addvess on receipt
of aadvcent postage stamp. ‘The Guide ean be had of
G. Woolworth Colton, Ly Beekman 8o, New York,
at a0 cents for die Bainigrants’ Edition, and St for
the Geflrard Ealition, postage paid.

Rack numbers of The Pine and Palm, or specimen
copies of current issues, will be sent, free, fo any
pbrsons intending to emigrate.

damus Ruprara, General gent.

NEW VOR ADVERTISEMENTS,
INS ELT. GR BENFIELD, THE BLACK SWAD

i‘ Wepecthally annmimees A isp Concern, for the ben.
ehtotthe Anvssixtay Barcist Crccen, tou Waverly place,
ySivth avenue, on WEDNESDAY EVENING, Bob. WwW,
she will be assisted: by Mrs. Hrow
nieve af the late Pronk fohmsen, and Proresson Coun,

Viekets of aduveadon, SQ cents; gallery, 24 cents,

Convert tocommenee preelsely at $ o'clock,

For farther pactlentars, see programe, —lt
APES & LOCKWOOD'S AGRICULTURAL IMELE-
| MENT AND SEED WARKHOUSE, 2223 CORTLANDT
STREET, NEW VORK.—Floughs, Hoos, Harrewa, Spailes,
Shoveld, Pickaves, Coowbars, Cultivators; Qeatn, Flour, and
Colles Mile; Chaltis; Rakes, horse, mute, and dog powers;
Witehtarks; Saws; Ox Vokes and Rows: Uatehets: Mam
ners; Sheep Shears; Corm-Sheller | Hay Cutters; Sey Chest,
and Cradles,

Alao ~-Cardon amid Vegetatlo Seods of all khibt,

Speelod attention given to supplying ombgrants to Hay ti.

Ordera frou They tl solledted, and catalogues gent when
applied toy.

CIROULAR.—-No, III:

Haytian Borrav or Exicritiox,
Boston, Aug. 31, 1861;
Autumn Arrangements,

Arrangements will be made by which émigranta
can sail from different ports daring the autunin and
winter. Due notice will be given of the days of
sailing, through the columns of The Pine and Palm.

Persons desiring to emigrate are requested to
reac carefally the circulars‘of this Bureau, and to
follow the directions therein given, as it is impossi-
ble to provide for the comfort of passengers exccpt
Dy ins sting ona strict compliance with our regu-
ations.

I. Let it be understood, that all who can pay for
their are expected to doso; and thats
assage will be. advanced to such farmers and la-

rers only ag are unable to meet this expense.

If. All mechanics who intend to practice their
trades in Hayd, mast go at thelr own expense ; the
Government guarantees ‘to find. work: for farmers
and laborers only. {¢ wiil welcome all colored em-
igrants ; but it cannot: agree to provide work for
all classes of tnechanics. Its demand for agricul.
tural labor is unlimited ; but for mechanical skill
this is not the case. | .

11f. Passengers will be charged at-the rate of
S18 each adult from United States ports; . from
Canada West, $25. Children under eighe-will be
charged half price ; infants under one year, free.

V. Passengers, in all cases, must provide their
own bedding. Mattresses must be four fect wide.
Each passenger must also be provided with. a tin
gallon can for water, atin cup, atin plate, knife and
fork, x few pounds of soap, and towels, with such
extra utensils ag may be deemed necessary to hold
the daily rations.

Y. The amount of baggage allowed to every
passenger is two trunks, or two barrels, or one
trunk and one barrel. All freight over that amount
will be charged for, separately from the passage
ticket, at the rate of 75 cents per barrel cr 15 cents
per cubic foot from American ports, The amount
for all overland freight, when advanced by the
Bureau, will be added to the passage moncy in the
Contract. This is exclusive of the Ledding,—which
goes free. All goods must be boxed up.

VI. The board provided for emigrants will be the
navy rations of the United States, minus intoxica-
ing spirits, which will not be allowed in our ves-
sels. The following is the fare:

DAY OF THE WEEK.

NAVY RATION FOR EACH

i (= = Sh :
. { = 19 oF i zy

Pays. | ol | ie] Big eo sleglad Ble

Elle Sissies 2243

EIB SQER S25 Se SSS Siz

RRARHB AE ZAEOSO RASS

Oz IG tb th tb i Its o20z0z0z0z'pt nt pt! gl
Sun, Mtl! tay fd] bide ut il.
Mon. 14{ {1 hQgt1i ri | ‘1
Tues. 14/1| Qt rigjad | pod
Wed. {Lt] 11 $2.35 Yep jou
Thurs, Wil: Jet fty ¢2.$o1 jpg.
Friday 14/1;1] 13 12d 2 2125 fa] 1
Sat. ji } $.2,d;1} uF | H il

‘osia oiajilele "ise 74-4 gg

Emigrants are at liberty to carry, free of expense,
additional provisions to be used on the voyage.
Slight additions may be made to the navy rations;
but the Bureau does not pledge itself to do so.

VIL As efforts have been industriously made by
unscrupulous men to misrepresent the conditions
under which emigrants who do not prepay their pas-
sages, Will accept the offers of the Government of
Hayti, it is deemed advisable to publish below,
in full, the contract to be made with them. The
words in italic and within brackets (blank in the
original) are tilled up to show precisely the terms
on which a single man can emigrate, It should
Ve distinctly understood, that no barrier whatever
will be put to any man’s return, excepting that he
shall pay the sum of eighteen dollars before em-
barking for the United States, if he did not pay
for his own passage from this country to Hayti.
The Government of Hayti, while they will welcome
all visitors, cannot reasonably be expected to pay
their passages, Hence this provision.

The following is the contract with the emigrants
who do not prepay their passages:

to

Articles of Agreement.

Tris AGREEMENT, made and entered into this
[first] day of [January], A. D., 1861, by and
between JaMES REDPATH, of Boston, General
Agent of Emigration, on behalf of the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Hayti, and [Jokn
Srnith], late of [Detroit, Michigan}, and an emi-
grant to Hayti;

WitnesseTu: That said James Redpath, on te-
halt of the Government of Hayti aforesaid,
arrees to provide a passage for said (John Smith]
from the port of [Boston] to the port of [st,
Mark| in said Hayti,in the [Brig L’Ami a’

Ordors for poods not hour Tie will bo eatishiotortly Med.
Ww MAPES & LOCKWOOD.

Faitil, leaving the port of [ Boston} an ar shone

the , Aird] day of [January], 1851, upon the
conditions hereafter following, viz:

First, said [John Smith] hereby acknowledges the
reecipt of [a] ticket of passage from said port
of [Boston] to said port of [St Mark], in Hayti,
and agrees during the term of said voyage to
provide [Ais] own bedding, and the necessary
utensils for eating and drinking.

Secondly, in consideration of receiving the passage
aforesaid, said [John Smith] further agrees,
that if he accepts a grant of land from the Gov-
ernment of Hayti, under the provisions of me
law on Emigration, approved by His Excellency
the President of the Republic of Hayti, Septem-
ber 1, 1880, he will repay to the Treasury of the
Republic.ot Hayti the sum of feighieen} dollars,
American currency, within [three years] trom the
date of this contmet.

Furthermore, that if from any cause said [John
Smith] sces proper to leave Hayti before the ex-
piration of the term of three years from the date
of [Ais] arrival in the Tsland, [#e] shall pay the
Treasury of the Republic of Hayti the sum of
[etvhtecn] dollars, American currency, as repay:
ment of expenses incurred by the agents of the
Government for [Ais] passage to, Hayti; but,
nevertheless, with this express provision: That
it [de] does remain diree years in the Island from
the date of [dis] arrival therein, and does not
see fit to accept a grant of land from the Govern
ment of the Republic of Hayti, [Ae] shall not be
required to repay to the Treasury of the Repulic
of Hayti, or any agent of Government thereof,
any sum whatever on account of said passage.

Ix Wits Wuercor, the said parties havo

hereunto set their bands and seals the day and

year above written.
“en . [John Smith.]
{u.s.] dames Revratn.

YIU. Emigrants must pay their expenses to the
port of embarkation. .

IX. To aid emigrants who wish to carry extra
baggage, the Barvan will allow them, (1 v giving 3
note payable to the Government of Haydi,) to take
such freiadit Co the ameunr of ten dollars,

X. The Buvean wishes it to be distinctly under-
stood, however, that unless at least twenty days
notice is given of intention to sail, with the amount
of Daggare to be taken, it will not bold itself’ re
sponsible to secure a passage for any ones
XL. All persons desiring informagon relative ta
the movenent, ave conlially invited to. correspond
wich the General Bureau, or personally to visit it
The fullest information will be atfonted them,

XEL Usual length of voyage, from fourteen to
cwenty days. Tangs Repratn,
sO General .tgent of Emigration,

CIROULAR.--No. IV.
Vartan Benrar ov EMiGwattos, }
Boston, August 19, ESah. t

On Inland Travel,

To Agents and Intending Emigrants intand :

Gentlemen -—The chief ditlculty Mat has hither.
to presented itself in carrying out (he projcet of
emigration hasarisen thom the Gecdatcolonad rm:
ers live ehietly ata considerable distance from the
coast, and ary seldom able to defray the expenses
of waching it, Especially does this obstacle present
itself inthe case of intending emigrants residing
in the British) Provinees and the Lake cites, To
obvinte it, various phins have been tried, various
schemes have been suggested > but experiences has

shown that they have not doen adequate to the
necessities of the case, Tho Inst plan suggesea,
and

publicly adopted, PE regret: to announes, Must,
equally with ato others, bo abandoned, as too slow,
expensive, and uncertain: Tomean the purpose of
sending vessels Quote the Lake cities or from the
port of Toronto, divet, to Tay.

Rut by au arrangement just completed, Tam ate
to guarantee to pay che expenses of all stich eami-
grunts as the Agents of this Bureau may select and
ondorse, fu any town, oF station on the Great
Western Railroad in Canada, benween Toronto and
Windsor—or front Detroit, Toledo, Sandusky,
Cleveland, Erie, or Buttalo—at tho rate of $25 cach
for_adalts, children under eight years hall’ price,
undey one year fe, .

The. baggagoallowed undor this arrangement will
De 0 tbs. to cach adult passenger | Emigrants are
advised not te take honsehold finite across dhe
country, but to obtain suchas they wish at New
York ov in Havd. Feathorbeds aro not wanted: int
Nayei, but emigrants will do well to bring empty
bed-tieks, and have these filled with staay at New
York, tor their berths, ;

Enigrants trom places east of Rutalo, Crom Ponn-
aylvania and New Jersey, atl fom other localities
within 400 mites of New York, can have their dues
to that port advanved—tho amount belng added to
the sum (S818) whieh they engage to wpay ty te
Government of Hayd, wider the terms of the con-
tet they sign, [Seo Cleeulat No, UL]

Yessely will sail front New) York, in accontance
With his arrangement, (under the pmtection of the
British flag) as often as mny be wquired—thowgh
it Will bo impossible to fix Cho dates of valllag mow
than six orseven days botbreband. - Knignants wt
give this Burvan, or tts Agents, notice at what cine
they will be wady, and they will be notified att we
earliest possiblo moment, of the day of sailing of

itvesset therealer, Jaks Bxprati,.
the fest vesset tho General alyent

INVITATION.

Hayti will soon regain her ancient splendor. This
marvellous soil that our fathers, blessed by God,
conquered for us, will soon yield to us the wealth

now hidden in its bosom. Let our black and yel-
low brethren, scattered through the Antilles, and
North and South America, hasten to codperate
with us in restoring the glory of the Republic.
Hayti is the common country of the black race.
Our ancestors, in taking possession of if, were care-
fal to announee in the Constitntion that they pub-

lished, that all the descendants of Africans, and of

the inhabitants of the West Indies, belong by right
to the Haytian family. The idea was grand and
sfeneneus,

Listen, then, all ye negroes and mulattos who, m ;
the vast Continent of America, suffer from the
prejudices of caste, The Repudlie calls you; she
invites you to bring to her your arms and your
minds. The regenerating work that she undertakes
interests all colored people and their descendants,
no matter what their origin or where their plice of
birth.

Hayti, regaining her former position, retaking
her ancient sceptre as Queen of the Antilles, will
be a torual denial, most eloquent and peremptory,
against those detractors of our race who contest
our desire and ability to attain a high degree of
civilization, GEFFRARD.

HISTORY Ole
THE REVOLUTIONS OF WAYTI
RY M. SAINT AMAND,
Adveeate, fommer Member of the Constitutional
Assenvbly of Hay ti.

Book Fourth—vonxcirpyn,.
Translated expressly for The Pine and Palin.
The Assembly of the North, when informed of

the last deerees of the Asscinbly of Saint: Mark,

relative to the disbanding of the treops and the |

opening of the ports, convened on the 59th of July,
atits hallof sessions, a publie and extraordinary
meeting of all the civil and) military anthorities,
and the principal citizens,

The civic oath having been reiitiirmed by all
presenz, and the opinion of the whole assemblage
being taken, the following opinions were drawn up
inthe form of resolutions, read and adopted in
epen meeting:

“The last acts of the Assembly of Saint Mark |

are declared punishable offences.”

©The first duty of the colony is to dissolve the
evalition which indulges all these crimes.”

“A ceputation shall make known the will of the
citizens, to the government, and demand the cisso-
lution of the Assembiy of Saint: Mark, within two

hours.”

“The d puties shall be commanded to withdraw
to their districts, under penalty of being prose-
ented as common cnemies to the peace of the
colony.”

The better to ensure the execution of what it
called the will of the citizens, the Assembly of the
North despatched jminediately, upon the frigate

+ Mark, &e.”

ition of all the citizens had taken) plaice at Paris on

The Assembly passed a vote of thanks to it, and
deereed to it the tithe, “Liberator of Frenchmen "
and deputed four ef its members to iaformn the
brave commander, baron de Sante-Dominge, hit
the Assembly regarded ifecpediont for the seenily
of the city of Saint Mark, (haf die would hare the
Kindness to bring bis vessel into tue roadstead.
The Leopard acceded to this wish, so. servilely
expressed, and entered the harbor, where she placed
hersel! entirely at the. The
Assembly of Saint Mark had already, on the Stst
of duly, placed Peinier ander the ban of proserip-
tion: on the 2d of August, reiissured by the pres:

embty's disposal,

ence of the Leopard, and knowing Chat its) parti.
sats were preparing in the South to march to. its
relief, it finally pronounced the removal of the Gov-
ernor, and forbade obedience to him. By the
same deerce, it appointed de Fierville, commandant
of the city of Cayes, as its successor; and called
its partizans to arms by the following proclama-
tion:

“In the name of the Nation, the huw, and the
King, and ef the imperilled French portion of
Saint Domingo!

“Union, force, celerity, courage!

“The infamons Peinier, the execrable Mauduit,
have accomplished their infamous projects; they
have bathed their hands in the blood of citizens,
.. The rallying points are Saint

“To arms i ..

‘Then it placed those citizens who should arta for
iss defence, together with heir families and) chil.
dren, under the protection of the colony. So great
it even resorted to falsehood in
It announced that a federa-

was its fright that
order to sustun itself,

the Hth of duly; thatthe King had acceded to
said federation, which ought to extinguish all ani-
mosities, Se. Le declared “that it would: leave the
enormous crimes of Count Peinier to be punished

r

by the arms of those good citizens who were ¢:
to escape from Port-au-Prince, and whose number
was rapidly angmenting.” 2... His trae that the
partisans of the Assembly of Saint) Mark, in’ the
South, had responded to its appeal, and: organized
considerable assistance. Bat that aid never ar-
Frived: besides, de Mandnit: had intercepted their
j departure from: Portau-Prince, and in another di
rection, commandant Vincent had just landed at
Gonaives and was preparing to naireh upon Saint
Mark. With the appearance of the new danger
which threatened it from the North, the Assembly
inmade haste to institute a municipality at) Saint
Mark, and wrote, through this new authority, to
commandant Vincent, asking him in the name ofa
true soldier's loyalty; in the name of honor and
humanity whieh inspived him, to abandon his hos-
dle anitude,  Vineent reptied that he shonld
‘the Assembly only cizhteen hours to dissolve itsell:
‘otherwise, atthe expiration of that time, it would
be dissolved by force of arms, (AttzUst ti.)

Encompassed on all sides, at the North by com-
mandant Vincent, at the South by Colonel de
| Manduit, and even in the city of Saint Mark by its
enemies who were becoming more clamoreus, the
Assembly of Saint Mark, reduced by defections,
leave of absence, and resignations, to eighty-five
members, rather than declare or submit to its own
dissolution, preferred to take refine in France.

On the 7th of August, 1720, itembarked on board
the Leopard. With it embarked likewise Croisier,
ex-President of the Committee of the West, and
his colleazue Duchemin, some of its most compro-
mised partisans, and cighty-nine soldiers of the
garrison whom it had corrapted. Ina decree passed
the same day, it exphiins its embarkation, by say
ing that the Leopard being compelled to withdraw
from the roadstead, in order to avoid the gates to
which the season rendered her liable, the Gencral
Assembly would be unable to take refuge on board,
provided such cretreat should be considered neces:
scary; therefore it occupied said vessel, from) ciat
day forth, for the purpose of holding its ses
sions.

vive

Vestal, an armed force consisting of troops gf the

The next day, the General Assembly passed a

Aaytion Bureau Department,

vantages Which a highly civilized state of society
can confer, and cultivate: the arts and) sciences of
peace. Itisa religious duty; for the slumbering

BOSTON, SATURDAY, FEB. 8, 1862.
NOTES OF THER MOVEMENT

ILavrian Bernnar or EMrauation,
tostop, Feb. 8, 1802,

indignation of Christendom waits only for the call
of such a community, the influence of such a soci.
ety, to annihilate forever the hideous system of
African slavery, and the accursed tratic in human
flesh, Shivery, our relentless foe, wavers: Prejue
dice its sworn ally hesitates; rally, then; call in
the strayeters close up your ranks and adopting
the Crusaders’ ery—~ Deus vudé—form your colunns
for a decisive attack, by the elevation of Hayti to
her proper position in the family of nations. 1.

A Reveinen. Lo the expericuce of nations, as
of judividuials, a lone coutinuanee in error ines ites
biy produces an inability eorreetly to discrinvinnate
between riht and wrome—an ineapacity to decide
justly in cases where snoral principles are iavelved.

When that point is reached, there remains only
“certain feactul looking fora jucdement aud tery
indignation.’ ‘“Phis nation has reached that point;
and, sticken with judicial blindness, it cannot see
the only path to safety; itis incompetent to choose
the right. God has given the people over to be-
lieve a most foolish die, and to say in their hearts,
“He hath vod surely made, of one blood, the nezro
and the white man.” Vain, therefore, is anv ape
peal to the national consecience—it is seared wich
Molten wold, into which the furnace of oppression
ttusinites the blood, and tears, and toil of the ne-
ero bondmen: useless any reference to dts: judi:
distorts its

Apprrss Your Lerrens Prorer.y.—The
General Agent requests all emigrants in Hayti,
when writing to their friends in the United States
or Canadas, Not to address their letters to his care,
or to the care of any one. Address your letters as
if vou were still living in the States, and intended
to put them into an American Post Ollice yourself,
Then give them to any American captain who,
when he arrives, will take them, @s required lo da
by tae, to the Post OMice here. Emigrants are
furthermore affectionately reminded that this Con-
tinent is of considerable size, and that: such ad-
dresses us these, Which we have just received,

Mr. John Freesnan

‘ for its. frenzie ime i , .
ment, for its frenzied inaction In the care of Mr. Redpath, 48 Beekman st.
vision, and dike amaniae mother it hugs its dead

offspring to its breast and) refuses to allow: the

and—

“To Edward Howard,
In the care ot Mr. Relpath, United States, America.”

are rather vague, and even indefinite in theil
character, Mr. Redpath, 48 Beekman street —with-
outadding the city, county, or State is varue
enough; “Mr. Redpath, United Stites America,”
is not much more circumstantial—but how are we
expeeted to know where John Freeman and Ed:
ward Howard live? As we donot keep a chair
veyant about the Bureat, onr friends in’ Hayd
must sce the necessity of being more minute in
their addresses. We hope that these of our
friends in Hayti who do receive The Pine and Palm
will vive this notice to their friends. Subscribers
of the paper in Hayti who do not regularly receive
it, are hereby notified that the faute does not lic
They are regularly sent: by the regular
It is very evident

pratrescent remains to be removed trom its em-

brace,

What, then, remains for us, heirs of bondage
and victims of oppression—ground between: the
upper and nether Prejudice and
Shiveryv 2?) ‘Trustin God, and areliance upon fthe
anilities He has given us, to accomplish the creat
partassizned us inthe drama of life! We ought
ho longer to rena inactive whilst new impulses

millstones of

are everywhere stirring the current: of iational
tite, and calling forth wnwonted energies, ‘Phe
spirit of the times bids us aronse from the stupor

of oppression and prepare to aid in the rewenera-
tion of our races to thraw our efforts ins whatever
direction tends to produce the quickest resulis— to
with us
packets from week to week.
that numbers of tetters and papers misearry; for
Mr. Miller of St. Mark, complains that he does not
receive any papers from us, while we have sent
several hundreds to him from time to time,

ditfase the readiest encowragement throughout our
seattereedl hosts,

We wanta rallying point, whence the example
of ony snecessfal efforts in industrial enterprise and
social organization inay radiate, and, Hke a bea
con, apprise our brethren everywhere of our up-
sing, and stimulate chem to Kindred efforts.
Colored men of these United States, are you
willing forever to crush the aspirations already
tiring Vvour souls, and which every addition to
yvorr mengil attuinment only serves to increase
without affording any hope for their realization ?
Do you desire to go down to graves, dishonored
by neslected duties, with unused talents whose ex-
undoubtedly benetit, the world) and
Tlave vou no desire

How THe Orrosirtion Mis RE r—In
November or December last, (we have forgotten
the month,) the New Bedford (Mass... Suudard

Salem Baptist Charch, on the 25th ivst.,”? the fol-
ine preamble and resolutions were “submitted,”
ke.—whether adopted or not, we cannot tell:
“Wher in view of the present hopeful indi-
cations that God is about to answer the prayers of
a long-adlesraded and oppressed people, by bringing
both seetions of this guilty: Nation, which con-
tinues to hold them: in’ bondage, fiaee to face in
baule; and believing that the pride of the South
and the honor of the North, make it iinpossible for
the two sections Which are now at war ever again
to effect a compromise like that of 1789, by which
the colored peuple were Constitutionally doumed to
their present condition, therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention feel it to be their
duty to protest against the operations and designs
of those in charge of Haytian Emigration, and that
we look upon any body of inen who seek gtr
wholesale removal, as is contemplated by Mr.
James Redpath and his coadjutors, as being char-
acterized by the same spirit which breathed into
existence the old American Colonization Society.
Resolved, That we condemn the infamous doce
tring, upon whateyer grounds ifmay be predicated,
that the white and black races cannot live together
upon this Continent, in a stite of freedom and
equality. .
Resolved, That we feel a deep sense of regret that
colored men in whom we have confided as our
leaders, should allow themsel es to be the touls of
«wide-spread ceil, which is discouraging and di-
viding us justa. the daybreak of our universal
emancipation.”
—Our readers
sertion that the
the “wholesale

ereise would
crown you with distinction ?
to wipe oY the stizma which the finger of scorn
attaches to your color, and to vindicate the ca.
pacity of your race for equal achievement with the
most advanced portions of the lunan family?
Arouse! press forward to the defence of your po-
sition in the line of progress! Each moment now
is precious, and by your action, in all human
probability, will the future destiny of the colored
races of this continent be shaped. Tlayti, as we
have said ona former vecasion, is the key of our
position, the poiel Voppeud of the black man’s ef-
fort for scltelevation, throughout the world, As
she was the first to behold onr enslavement on this
continent, so Was she the first to witness and sus-
tain our carliest: effort for selemancipution. Let
her be first crowned with the successful results of
our independent efforts, asa people, to take a fit-
ting position among the nations of the carth,

For us she reserves her exhaustless mineral
wealth—for us she waits to lavish forth the
abundant riches of her matchless soil, touched by
the magic wand of industry, She bids us come
and garrison the natural fortress which Providence
has ordained, impregnable, if we but do our duty,
against the attacks of envious powers, and the

ved not be told how false is the as-
‘iends of Haytian Emigration seck
noval” of the colored races of

wee Acclaring that #? denarted for France

hing and VORMMTCES EMME INE OnICTS C acent,
commandant of the province. At the sane time,
by proclamation, it invited all citizens to unite with
it; and in order to give these extreme measures a
leval and patriotic character, it resolved that the
colonists of the province be immediately called
upon to nominate their representatives to a new
Colonial Assembly, constituted in the manner pre-
scribed by the instructions of March 28; and that
the first oath of the new deputies should be to con-
form in all respects to the deerees of the Leislature
of France, approved by the King. Finally, in an
address to the districts of Port-an-Prince, it cn-
deavored to dissipate the prejudices which those
districts had conceived against it, and to detach
them from their adhesion to the Assembly of Saint
Mark.

On the same day that the Vestal left the Cape,
and stcered towards Saint Mark, with the com-
mandant Vincent and his troops, for the purpose of
dissolving the Colonial Assembly, another vessel of
war, the Leapard, commanded by Baron de Santo-
Domingo, weighed anchor in the readstead of Port-
au-Prince, and set sail for the harbor of Saint
Mark, to place itself at the disposal of the threat-
ened Assembly.

This vessel, at the time the first rupture occurred
between the Governor and the Colonial Assembly,
was Iving in the roadstead of Port-au-Prince, wider
the charge of the Marquis de la Galissonniére, com-
mandant of the naval forces at Saint Domingo.
The crew, influenced by the intrizuers of the Com-
mittce of the West, pronounced at the outset for
the partisans of the Assembly. On the 27th of
July, certain syinptoms of insubordination being
apparent on board, the Marquis de la Galissonnitre,
as agreed with de Peinier, gave orders to prepare
for departure to the Cape; but the sailors, backed
by a manifestation on the part of the inhabitants,
refused to obey. After useless attempts to bring
back the crew to a sentiment of duty, his authority
being disregarded, the Marquis dela Galissonniére,
accompanied by several officers, Icft the ship and
went on shore.

The day alter the forcible dispersion of the Com-
Initice of the West, July 20th, the crew summoned
their commmander to return to his post; and upon
his refusal, the mutinecrs offered the command to
baron d¢ Sante-Domingo. The latter was a Saint
Dominzo ercole, and one of the richest proprictary
planters of the plain of Cal-de-Sae, and second in
command on board the Leopard, He accepted,
and returned on board, with the consent, at least
apparently, of the Marquis de Ja Galissonnieére.

The Assembly of Saint Mark, who, in that short
interval, had heard of the iutiny of the Leopard’s
crew, passed a vote of thanks to them in requesting
the commandant not to leave Port-au-Prince. ‘This
decree had reached its destination on the evening
of July 29th, notwithstanding the distance between
the two cities. The Assembly hoped, hy foment-
ing the sedition at Port-au-Prince, to effect a diver-
sion Which would allow it, in gaining time, to pre-
pare for its defence,

jut Count de Peinier, master of the situation in
in that city, through the dissotution of the Com-
mittee of the West, ordered the Leopard to sail that
very day for France; and, to enforce this order,
the cannons of the city forts were brought to bear
in such a manner that the revolted crew were re-
duced to subinission, The Leopard set sail, and
the day following, Juby 81st, arrived off Saint Mark.
The Assembly was in the last extremity when this
succor arrived; it did not feel safe even in its hall
of sessions. The Government had a considerable
party at Saint Mark, who were actively cngaged
in its favor, This party kept up a correspondence
with the White Tufts of Portan-Prince, who kept
them informed of every thing which transoired
there, On the dist of July, the White Tufts of Saint
Mark, made an unsuccessful attempt to obtain pos.
keasion ot the city by sain force, The Assembly
withdrew ton place called Guépés, within half a
Jeague of Saint Mark; but on the appearance of
the Leopard, it determined to return to the clty aud
reaume Its geasion.

The transports of joy which it exhibited, and
the excessive honors that it bestowed upon the
Taopard, proved the magnitude of tg terror, prior
to the arrival of this unexpected aid,

bearing to the nation and t King the assurance
of its inviolable attachment, to denounce to them
the plot laid by Peinier, Mauaduit and Vincent and
to demand sigifal vengeance on their criminal
attempts.

Finally it again decreed that its existence would
not cease on buard the Leopard and that it should
continue to occupy itself with the business that ap-
pertains to its mission.

It is pretended that, a decree relative to the organ-
ization of the adininistrative bodies of the colony
was actually rendered on board. The last acts of
the Assembly of Saint Mark, like all others cmana-
ting from it, bear witness to its inflated pretensions
to soverciznty and supremacy, as wellas its immo-
derate pride. The boastful and swaggering tone
which characterizes them from a singular con-
wast with the cries of distress and compulsory de-
parture.

Thus ended the conflict which arose between
that assembly and the comimitice of the West. on
one side, and the Government and Provincial As-
sembly of the North on the other; a conflict which,
during six months divided the whole population
of Saint Domingo between two camps. Born of
the jealonsies of conflicting authorities: degenera-
ting speedily into personal recriminations who:
usclessness Was equalled only by their bitterness, it
terminated, like nearly all political stvifes of that
kind, in acts of violence, resulting in the triumph
of the stronger party; but victory cannot be con.
sidered as the triumph of right, where both parties
are Wron; Doth the contending factions betrayed
the mother country, and neither of them were acta.
ated by a reward for the public weltave, The As-
sembly of Saint Mark and the Committee of the
West accused the government and the Assembly of
the North of betraying the revolution for the pur-
pose of maintaining the royal authority and arbitra-
ry power.

The Government andthe Assembly of the North
accuscd the Assembly of Saint Mark and the Com-
inittce of the West of favoring the Revelation on-
ly for the purpose of deceiving France, wresting
the colony from her and establishing a Colonial
Oligarchy, Both these charges were equally base:
Jess; but it was only too ue that both parties to
that deplorable conflict aimed ata result in’ which
the rights of France and the interests of the Colony
were entirely disregarded; ins which egotisin and
ambition were the sole incentives on both sides.

The intermediate party had entered into the
quarre), by siding with one or the other of the con-
testauuts, Without well considering the designs of
cither. Some had joined the Government party
from love to the mother coutry, whieh they hoped
thus to serves from repugnanee to {the idea of sep-
aration; through respect to the national sove-
reivuty, of which their party constituted itself che
defender; or out of hatred to the aristocracy, and
also from private jnterest. Others bad espoused
the cause of the Assembly of Saint) Mark on ae-
count of its pretended revolutionary principles and
the reforms which it promised, without) bothering
themselves with its notions of independence; rome
of these last were influenced by a fecling of resent-
ment against the agents of Government and by a
hatred of the abuses of which they were the person-
ification.

A great number were ranged on cither side pire-
ly froin a spirit of contradiction and simply be-
cause many others had joined the opposite party.

In his inanner, the people often further the de-
signa of their cnemies; sometinnes by allowing
themselves to be seduced by empty promises, or
deceived by false appearances; at others by indit-
ference or by vielding to the jinpulse of passions
artfully aroused,

Iu this contest, the men of color, for the first
time, sided with one of the white factions, namely
the Government party; which in their opinion
represented France and hawfal authority. They
consented to abandon their expected neutrality on-
ly at the solicitations of the Govenor and de Mau-
duit, who promised them, in return for their assis-
tance, an eMicicnt protection from the persecution
of their enemica. We shall see in what manner
they were rewarded for their devotion.

[END OF BOOK Iv.)

sys at a) : et . : I
Sys, that at the 2st Annual Mecting of the | which does not recosni
American Baptist Missionary Society, held in’ the

—The Now York Evening Post of February th,
had ii: followiag article:

“Tris stated that Mr, Sumner will today intro-
duce a bill in the Senate to recognize the independ:
enee of Hasti, and establish ciplomatic relations
with that country, This is in accortasce with the
recommendation of the President in his: last Mes-
sage. Mr. Lincoln said: ‘If any good reason
exists why we should persevere longer in withhold-
iuy our recozuition of the independence and sove-
rewnty of Hayti and Libeia, Toam unable to
discern it.’ Notonly are there no reasons against
recognition, but there are very sufficient reasons
why we should cultivate the friendship of those na-
tions. We have commercial intercourse, accord:
ine to the last volume on Commerce and Naviga-
tion, published by Congress, with seventy-live
states or countries 5 and in this list [ayti rauks the
twenty-first, in the comparative importance of our
exports thither; while in regard to our imports
thence, it stands twenty-fourth on the list. During
the year ending June 40th, 1860, our exports to
Hayti amounted to $2,673,682, and our imports
thence to $2,002,723. Comparison with the statis-
ties regarding other countries shows that, while we
exportas much to Hayti as to Russia, our imports
Ubence execed those from Kussia by half a million
perannmum. Weexport to Hayti atillion and a
quarter dollars’ worth more than to Sweden and
Norway, more than nineteen tines as much as to
Japan, nore tian four times as much as to all the
French West fndies. Our imports from Hayti ave
double those from Turkey, and ao hundred-told
more than from French West Indices.

TI is no doubt that it would be casy by a
Hitdle care and attention to double or quadrupe the
Value of our trade with these people, The sonth-
ern atistocrats who so long misrited at) Washing:
ton persistently refused to recoznize and establish
commercial relations with Hayti, They cared
nothing for legitimate trade, being too much en-
sawed with their ilibustering operations. Et is oa
matter of justice that the present Congress should
repair the wrong we have so long done to an ine
dustiions people: but itis ot oniy justice that in-
haces to this step, but, as we have shown, a pradent
consiteration of commercial wlvantages whieh may
be ours, but whieh, if we refuse then, will most
certainly be secured by the British or Freneh.”

— Among the telegraphic dispatehes from Wash-
ington in the New York World, of February 6ih,
is the following paragraph:

“DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH HAY tt—There
is litte question buc that diplomatic relations will
soon be opened with Hayti. A representative will
be sent to Portan-Prince, and it is understood that,
to soothe the prejudices of parties who do not like
nerroes, A White man will be deputed to represent

Hayti in this couutry, We are now represented in
Hayti by a eommercial agent, Mr. Seth Webb;
Great Britain is represented by Spenser St. Jolin;

Spain, by Antonio Alverez; France, by Marquis de
Forbin Janson, each of whom, with the exception
of the United States, have diplomatic functions and
a seeretary of Jega ion, Holland, Belium, Russia,
Austria, Norway, Sweden, the Hanse Town States,
and Denmark, have consul-generals at) Port-au-
Prince, But America, so far, is the only power
¢ that nation by treaty, and
Which has no formal representatlve, As our com-
mercial relanons with Hayti are important, this
anomaly will not longer be permitted. Coffee, loz-
wood, sugar, Cotton, tropical fruits, and mahogany,
are large articles of commerce with our merchants,
who farnish flour, provisions, and dry goods there-
for, This movement will be followed, of course,
by a representative being sent to Liberia,”

—The Boston Traveller says—‘CVothing bul the
ascendency of meanness prevented their recogni
tion long ago.’ Bravely and well said.

-_—->

LETTER FROM HAYTI,

Sr. Marg, Dee. 24, 1861.

My, Redpath—Dear Sir: We arrived here ten
days after we left New York. The captain and his
crew were very kind tous. Ilad you known the
value of my services on board of the vessel you
would have given mea free passage. [did my
best to keep the passengers’ spirits up, and to keep
the ship clean; 20 that we had no sickness except
sea-sickness. We found butone thing that was
disagreeable, which was that there were not houses
enough at St. Mark to acccomidate all the emi-
grants, and the brig Jane had to be sent to Port-
au-Prince. Some of the passengers’ things were
lert here.

{ went to the market and found everything dear.
fC think that some provision ought to be sent out,
or we shall havea bard time to get a start. Our
company are well. at present; but there has been a
few deaths here. -

On Monday we went to locate our land about
twelve miles from here on the Artibonite. It seems
of the greatest importance to get our Jand and have
our houses built, and to raise the food that we are
accustomed to. We would be glad to see more of
our brethren here who have capital, and would
furnish us with American provisions.

Please tell Mr. Lawrence that this is the place for

wee tae Serer Ancrica, The now that we repeat, week after
insidious assaults of prejudice. She invites us to ae . A
week, that itiss vwricultural laborers and farmers
ant wnt ceant hearts and on : : :
‘ie + emiewnes os Haveicand

banaaey
willing hands alone, but those powerful engines by
which the victorics of peace are won—“the
plough, the anvil, and the loom.” She asks us to
cover her fields with smiling cottages clustering
around the meeting-house and schools; to break
the stillness of her primeval forests with the sound
of the woodman’s axe, and the noise of crashing
trees; and to awaken her mountain echoes with
the steam whistle’s significant reverberation.

She sits expectant, and from her queenly throne
looks forth to view commerce, called into existence
by her new-born industry, whitening the sea with
richly Jaden fleets, and) bringing them to ler feet.
She longs to sce her once flourishing marts of
trade shake off the blight of years of decrepitude
and decay, and rear themselves again with a
nobler aspect and more than pristine vigor. Whata
glorious prospect is presented to us! What anap-
peal to two of the most potent principles of our
nature: the love of liberty and the desire of wealth.
The most unbounded ambition here finds ample
room to distend its ilimitable desires, and the
loftiest: patriotism, a fitting opportunity for the
display of its brighiest characteristics and its
purest actions,

But our cfforts need direction, and) our foree re-
quires discipline; especially in entering upon un-
tried fichls of labor, and in undertaking the settle-
Inent of anew country, Therefore itis necessary
to organize our industrial corps so as to insure
their eMicicney for the work they have to do.

The work of recruiting for the agricultural army
of Hayti is zoing briskly forward, and we conmend
the following extract: from a letter of Col. 1. C.
Bustill, relative tothe Gefracd Industrial Regi-
nent, under his command, to all who are interest-
ed in the progress of our people; especially to

He wares .

who wi
these cla

a very sinal
the Northe:
Resolation
tared seve.

Peee se ed Rascal

ertunately for the race, form only

anus ee

tate

on account +

that there is no colored man so brutally degraded

rard, (the colored Statesman who originated this

persecuted race brethren, we seek in vain fur a
parallel in history,) is inspired with the foul spirit
which touk body in the Colonization Society, and
they know, too, that the Agents of President Getl
rard in the United States, have long been the mark

their unwavering advocacy of the doctrines that
freedom and equality should be granted to the co!-
ered races here. Hence, they wilfully pervert
their doctrines and designs, They forget that
“ever the truth comes uppermost.” Where, now,
is the man who would undertake to say that the
Government of Hayti was not honest it its offers?
Yet they might have been mustered by reviments
at the beginning of the Movement. Is it not
amusing to see the benevolent and benelicent: plan
of Gellrard characterized as a “wide-spread evil?”
May such “evils,” originating as they do ins phi-
lauthropy and wisdom, speedily overshadow the
earth; and may they soon so Cdiscouraye” as to
utterly annihilate all: that useless troop of Uriflers
who never originate any great plan, never do any
creat thing; but waste their useless lives in cavil-
ling at planners and workers, whose genius they
cannot nnderstand, and whose industry they shrink
in criminal aversion frum eniulating!

those who intend, or desire to eminvate to Tayti.
HArnisnenc, Jan. 8, 1862,
James Kedpath—Dear Sir: b have been par-
Hicnhurly impressed) with the peculiar apiness and
fitness Of the remarks of Mr. Melrose, in a late
munber of The Pine and Palin, under the head of
Bastill’s Industrial Regiment; so much so that |
have concluded to change the name of the Get:
trard Coffee Growers, to that of Getlrard Industrial
Reviment; and by that tide the Growers will be
hereatter known,

—Emisrants should take a supply of stationery
with them. Paper, envelopes, pens, and ink, are
cheaper inthe United States than in’ Hayti, Mr.
Geo, C, Anderson writes to advise every emigrant
to tike a copy of The Guide to Hayti with him, as
it is even more usetal there than here. He says
his copy has be sw foaned so much that it has all
come to pieces,

—Will Mrs. Ann FE. Paulding, who wrote to us
Jan. 20th, and informed us iu she had subscribed
for The Pine and Palm, please give us her address?

The special object of the Regiment will he to
unite inane body tor mutual strength, interest,
influence, caterprise, and social intercourse, add who
intend cinigvating to Hayii in the spring, as com-
bination of purpose and promptitude of action
Inust ever procure beneficial resalts, Pearnestly in-
Vite the cooperation of all individuals, parties, col-
onies, communities, or other associations. Their
councetion with the Reziment: wilh not require
means, nor willexpense be incurred, neither will it,

wee >

in any manner, intercfere with) their present. ar- RECOGNITION OF HAYTY,
rangements or organization, their officers will re- manne -
Luin and: perform the ditties of their present por] phe following Dill was introduced into the Senate

sitions, their leaders neting as their special repre:
sentatives, inal respects, as they did before con-
necting themselves with une Regiment—ercept in
vaue, AML individuals will become members of
Company A. AID associations will be designated
alphabetically, according to the date of their en
rolipent, for exatple:

Co, A, Capt. OL Co Hughes, Harrisburg, Pa.

“ “HL. Molson, Lewistown, Pa.

of the United States by the Hon. Charles Sumner,
February d, read and passed to a second reading:
A DHL to authorize the President: of the United

States to appoint diplomatic representatives
the Republics of Havytiand Liberia, resoeetively.
Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives of the United States of America in Con-
aress assembled, thatthe Presidentof the United

‘ ‘ Wm. Thompson, Danville, Pa. States be, and he hereby is, authorized, by and
“ vane MeCown, ‘Tannery, O. | with the advice and consent of the Senate to ap-
‘ “ Wing kW alker, Trenton, Nid, point diplomatic representatives of the United
“ “ Win. 1. Scott, Buxton, C, Ww. States to the Republics ot Hayti and: Liberia re-
. nO. Bland, ‘Troy, N. Y. spectively. Each of the said representatives so ap:
“ wo Jones, sburg, Pa. _ | pointed shall be accredited as commissioner and

A. Grayson, New Worcester, Mass. [consul general, and shall receive, ont of any

dy, Samuel Ip, Tolland, Cincinnati, O.
Two hundred able bodied recruits are wanted for
Company A. A) bounty of sixteen acres of laud
Will be guranteed to every mnarvied man and six
aeres to every single nian. Persons or associations
desirous of connecting themselves with the Rewi-
ment, Will please address me, stating age, ovenpi-
tion, number, &e, ke. Praly yours ror Haye
“Por where liberty dwells Grere is my country.”

Jos, C, Bustin.
Box No.2, P.O. Harrisburg, Pa.

Despised fellow-countrymen! the God of justice
has sown dissension among your oppressors, in
order to open for you a door of deliverance; not
by physical prowess upon the red tleld of battle,
not by lighting the incendiary (oreh and grasping}
the assassins’ weapon; our triumph must not be
stained by deeds of which future generations
would stand appatled. Nof be it ours: to seize the
present opportunity to lay the foundations, broad

money in the treasury not other vise appropriated,
the compensation of commissioners provided for
by the act of Congress approved Auwust eighteen,
eiehteen landred and. tittyes Provided, ‘Vtrat
the compensation of the representative at) Liberia
shall not exceed four thousand. dolhirs.

OF this Hill, the Boston Journal of February
Sth says:

“The bill before the Senate of the United States
for the recognition of Hayti and Libevin anthorizes
the President of the United States to appoint di-
plomatic representatives to these Republies., Each
of the representatives so appointed, shall be ace.
ercdited as Commissioner and Consul-General, aud
shall receive the compensation of Commissioners
provided for by the act of Congress, approved Au-
rust 18, 1856; provided that the compensation of
the representative to Liberia shall not exceed four
thousand dollars,

‘This measure is onc of tardy justice, and wo hope
will speedily pass Congress. Qur cominereial rein-
tions with Liberia and Hayth are already very ex-

mtof the free colored people of

‘The person who oftered these
new these facts well; for he was en-
weeks in the Boston Bureau as an
errand boy, from which position he was discharged
his incompetency and ..sdolence.
Personally, he is of no significance whatever. But
these, his Resolutions, serve to show the spirit of
mauy of the opposers of this Movement. They dare
not meet it on its merits, but either misrepresent it,
or seek to raise side or personal issues. They know

as to be capable of believing that President Getf-

Movement, and to whose gencrous invitation to his

of Pro-Slavery abuse and hatred on account of

Boots & shoes, cases. .88
hox...
Brushes, box..........

To) a)

kits
Nails, casks..

Mackerel half bbls 48t
quarter Dbis....... 18
vo cee eo IOS

Tre Recogsition oy HAayti—lIt seems to us
if there is one important point to be secured in aur
foreign diplomacy itis the recognition of Mayts, a

oe eee OE] treaty of commerce with her, and the secari goof

Beans, bf bbts.......283
bushels...........148
Books, pkg...
box

LCL eB |
Nutinegs, pkgs. 5
Nuts, bays..
Needles, pks.

araed
wreed

Bitters, jug... ..L) Napkins, pkg.........
Beets, bbis.... 22) Nitvie acid, box.......)
howsheat,.. ..2 Naval stores, bbla....24
Buckets... 0... 360 packages... 0.006... 15
Brooins, bdls....153,020 Ochre, bbls. wee AD
Butter, Ibs,.......8,720  keggs....... wll
KOS. cc cere eee 2499 Oats, Dbis.. 6.0.68 TO
pails. .ceee Oakum, bbls........200
JAIS. occa eee bales......ceeee ee DA
hoxes,..... 6+ Onions, Dbis. ..... 256
CTANES. Cee cee
CASES coe TB

Sread,
boxes...
half bbls.

barrels....-...
Ornament, box...

Oars. cee eee ee 6 BE
CASOS cece ee eee 2 Obl, vals... e000... 2,197
pounds. ......-.66 001 4 nS ©
Beef, bbls...........995 other pkgs........ 20
half bbls .........08L Oil (whale) bbis.. 2... 24
packages. .... see eeee 2) Paint, keys........6,375
CUS... seen ee Od pails. ...........2,644
quarter bbis........15 packages, .....6.6.)07
Soards, ft...... 616,50) On
pieces eee dB
a

Bath pans. .
Bath tubs, pkgs. .
baskets.
Biscuits, boxes...
barrels... .....0.6-
packages... 0...

quarter bbls...
Poratoes, bbls...
Pe per, bags.. ..
.25 Provisions, pkgs......5

Bureau. ........-.ee.ee)  Prones, pkys.........67
olts, bdl.......e.e. el) Potash, case..........1
Barying, ; 39 pounds. .......... 580
BAUS cece eee ee 59 Paper hangings, rolls.56

packages 1 3 Ping, case.......0...2-1
Blocks 2120 Piteh, bbl wee A
Blankets, bil... «Ll Piano .... ..1
Bellows, pairs -2 Powder, box cree |
Bullet moulds, 1.2 kews....... 4

Coittish, quis, 6.543 Plank

drums ..........3,281 |
DONS ce cece oe V6 !
half drums..... Fe]

quarter drums......80 oe
andiles, cases. .......10 Pistols, pky. weal

boxes..... Piano stools... 2)

pounds, .... Pomatuim, bxs,.......5)

Chains, pkys . Pens, phy...

Preserved meat bxs...1
Pumps (chain). .......
Pump tubing, pes... 4
Quills, pky...-.....0.01
Zice, bbls, .
half bbls
baus. .. .
half tes... .........

bandles. Pipes, bxs.. 2nd
boxes Pencils, pkg P|
single..... Peas, hf bbl. seval
otherwise packed ‘aint brushes, case... .1
a7
»

Crinulines, pks........2
Caps, bales. ..... .

pounds, :
Chain pumps ..
Copper pump.
Copper stills...

Copper srillhead......1 — pounds........19,740
Corn meal, tbs......675 Raisins, bxs.........125
bays. ...... ee eee AOD half bxs...........85
Corn, bushels.......100 quarter bxs..... . 479
Cabbages.......... 300 cighth-bxs........200
Cigars,....0......23,500 pkys .......
CASE, Co cece eee eene aed CASES. coc e eee ee ee eed

packages. .
Coal tar, bbls.

Rosin, bbls...

Camboose.... ..-}) Rope, ils a6
Cultivators. A coils. .
Cotton, bales .-..3 Rags, pkg

Railing, Dx...........

Cs
Rubbers, pkg........-
Refrigersators,...
Ratetraps, box........1
Rochelle powders, bx. :

packaes ...
Cotton gin.........0..

packages.........68.
Cotton press, pkg.....
Confectionery, pkgs. .47

boxes .

Ha bet pet beh pet ohn CRD OD

Crocker Rosemary, Dox........
CASCS...4. Syrup, pkus
Combs, box Sausages, bxs

Cider, box
Clock. .....
Clothes, bale..
packages...
keg
bucket...
Crackers, cases......G12
keys...........-1,112
tins..... 6
packages...
boxes. ......
barrels. .
Cassia, pkgs. .
bags......
bale....

Smoke pipe. ....
Stoves.............1,00!
Sideboard. .........

Scales. .
Shovels....
Sherry, doz,
-85 Stamps...
Shoes,

CASCS. ce ccceeecr sence
Sp. Turpentine, gals..134
box ..
Salmon, kits,.......840
barrels ..........0047
Sewins-machines, box.1
Shad, bbls............10

DONS... cee eee ee ee od
Carrvall........6..00.1
Cordage, coils. 50

all youns men whe ave money Any one ean vet

‘

yj into business here, and do well, if he has money.
He should know the french and English languages.
As for myself, Lam doing very well, Mr. Lawrence
will please say to the colored ladies, that all the
marketing is done here by the women. Saturday
is the vreat market-day. Tell all who wish to come
here, that they had better bring things with them, or
they will sufler for them,

The mornings and evenings are very pleasant
here, but in the middle of the day the weather is
very Wir,

No more at present. [ will write more fully next
time. With kind wishes to all, [ remain, yours
respectfully. PP. WALL.

a gwen e- .

COMMERCE OF HAYTI WITH THE U.S.

No. Y.—Port of Boston—[coxcicpep.]

Compiled for The Plne and Pahn.

Having laid before our readers some statisties 0
the rade ef Boston with Hasti for the vear 1831,
we proceed to give a brief summary of the whole.

‘To commence with the [mports.

The value of the coffee imported from Hayti into
Boston, for the year 1861, amounted to $105,427.
The value of the importations of lozwood for the
same period, was $10,569. Of cotton, the ship-
ments were small, and the valne was estimated at
only $3,683, That of lignumvitne was sell less, it
being only 34,680.) So that the total value of the
year’s imports amounted to $559,359,

From the list of exports, it appears that the
quantity of alewives shipped to Hayti, during the

last r§ 12,689 barrels and) 620 halt-barrels;.
batter, 8,720 pounds, 2,490 kegs, 880 pails jars,

boxes, and 635) packuges; bread, 448 Db
boxes, 1OL barrels, and 32 other: packages of vari-
ous kinds; of beet, 595 barrels, 12 halt-barreis, 15
quarter-barrels, 32 kezs, and two  orher packages;
boards, 616,501 feet; codfish, 36,513 quintals, 3,281
drams, 4 half-drums, 800 quarter-drums, and 778
boxes; ules, 10 ts, 2,817 boxes, and 5,600
pounds; cigars, 23,500; crackers, G12 cases, 1,146
keys, 635 tins, and 160 other packag cheese,
082 boxes, and 6,792 pounds; flour, 25,326 barrels;
lard, 3,477 kexs, 3,100 pails, 82 cases, 220 packazes,
29,090 pounds, and several packages of other de-
nominations; mackerel, 9,997 varrels, 481 halt-bar-
rels, and 131 other packages; pork, 15,187 barrels;
rice, 101) barrels, 8,567 half-barrels, and 19,740
pounds; sturar, barrels, 304 boxes, 152) halt:
barrels, and) 30,916 pounds; soap, 116,980 boxes,
225 quarter-boxes, and 100,800 pounds; tobacco,
35,000 pounds, and 71 packages of various kinds;
tish, 950 barrels, 227 packages, and 2,920 boxes;
house frame, LAGE feet; and hams, 7,599 loose,
5,175 pounds, and 2h barrels, tierces, or casks,
Other articles were exported in smaller propor.
tions,

The conveyance of those exports; called into re-
quisition the services of 305 vessels, ehielly brizs
and schooners, varying in size from (50 to 300 tons,
Of that number, there were 6 barques, 10) brigs,
and 151 schooners; and assuming that each vessel
had a erew of six men, the trade would dius give
emplossnent to upwards of 1,800 eamen. ‘To how
many thousands of other persons this: branch of
commerce gives regular employment, i¢ would be
dificult to determine; but judging from: the list ot
exports, Cre ntunber must be very large.

Let the facts, however, speak for themselves.
VALUE OF EMPORTS,

The value of the Thaytian. imports into the port

of Boston for the year ending December 31, 1831,

were—

Comte. .ccceeee cues » S105 427
Lowwood.... 2 140,585
Cotton. 2... » S885
been e tenes 4,080

$559,359

8S EMPLOYED,

Barques .
Brigs....
Schooners

305
TOTAL OF
Alewives, bbls... .12,080
half bbls, oo...
Apples, bbis........
half bbls
Anchors
!

EXPORTS.
Lead, white, kegs. . 250
Linen, pky.
Lamps, ph
Lard, key
pails, ..
ponnd :

cu
oe tins .... eens
boxes, Dbls or tes,

Almond oil, bx
Annis seed, bbl.

“ot

and deep, of a republic where black men may en-
Joy all the blessings of Uberty, possess all the ad-

tensive, though limited compared to what they
might be, with proper encouragement,

nematic. ery _

pounds. we TT half bbis...........-8
Cement, casks..,......5 Salt, bags.......60...10
Varrale .10 barrels toad

46 Sheets, pkg.....

aed eeeees .
Coffee bags, bales...
Cards, bxs........... 4
Cheese, bxs.......8,022 Signal flaz............
pounds..........6,792 Shetlac, hf. bbis.......
Chaise. .. -J Scale beams, set. .
Collars, pkz.. .. .1) Saddle.. .....
Candlesticks, box .1 Stone hammers.
Clocks, cases..........5 Spevie....
Carpeting, yds.......16 S ore trucks
Castor oil, bxs.......12 Sign
Coffee mills, bxs......2 Sand paper, bdls

packages ..........
. veeeel® Slates, DXS.... 0.0.62.
Dry goods, Seeeee al
Domestics, pkgs.....911

cases.

bales .......
Distil apparatus.

Drugs, pkys

Ww Rare

1S

6860) Sugar mill.

Freworks, pk cask...

Grind St
Grain, bbls.
Garden seeds, bx,

package ..........
Gam Avabie hf bbis...1
Glue, bbls...

tionery, ba

Dee
Dundle.......
packues 2...
Sugar, bbls...

balt-barrels......

eoeeel Doxes.....06 » dot

12 half-bo: Lk

2 hhds...... £20

28 pounds , OG

cases . 92 Soap, 116,930
otherw pounds .......100,800

Handearts ....
House frames, tt.
Hams, single.
pounds,
harrefs

other packages. ...231
Turpentine, bxs ‘

CASUS. oe eee
2.2.-5,175 Tablecloths, pkg....
Tan, hhds.......

packages ......
Tabs, nests, ...

. Twine, 3

Nerrings, bbls .. pack 4
half barrels Toys, case. wl
boxes. ... Toa, pki... c cece ceed
Tadaceo, lbs... 35,000

packages
Make, drams........
re Oe 3
Hardware, bxs. oo. 2... 4
packages .....
Haddock, drums
quintals, .......
halt drums... 00... ./
box
Hemp, bxs
Hatehets, box. .
Haops, bdls....
Tron hoops, bdls
other kinds,
‘Ink, bxs
Indigo, keg...
baskets. 2...

other packages. .
Tongues, kegs
packages
kits.
bbls.

Se.
Trunks and yal
cL Tar, bbls. 2... .
Types, Dxs..
Trimmings, cask. ....
Tombstones .........12

bores... cee

hy

Tron vice Torpedos, p

Tron castings, eas Thread, pkygs.........3
tron railing, bxs......8 Umbrelins, pke. 1

Lron bedsteads 2.2.0 ...20 Vermifuge, bxs.......2
lron filings, box.......1 Varnish, cases. .......4

Ive, tons,.......... 446 Vinegar, bbis..... 0...

Iron pipes, pes......679 Vegetables, bbls... 321

Dx... Fran) SW (|
Lutnber, ft. .....895,018) Venetian red, bbls... .3
Locks, phiss.... eet) Washing machines, ...3

Looking: glasses, Dxs..6 Wine, cases
CNSES ee ..2 > Wicking, gross
Leather, rolls 22) Wheelbarrows ..

Saddlebags, pkgs... 12)

AG

«1 most accurate ever published.

a well fortiticd coaling station at some one of her

ports,

The attempt whieh Spain is making to re
conqtcr her ancient dominion inthe New World
inust be met, The people of the United States are
hot prepared to throw whe Monroe doctorine over-
board, and Haytican be made the base of operse
tions from which to operate upon the Spanish pos-
sessions in the Weat Indies.

We can not afford to sacrifice such advantages
asthe sincere friendship of the Havtian Govern-
ment would offer us to the negropholie prejudices
which oppose its recognition, finyti will, if as-
sured of our certain friendship and support, make
asmost faithful ally, .

She will gladly receive all our surplus colored
population, and if the emigration of the beter
class of our free colored people to Hayti is en-
conraged by our Government, and such incasures
as may be necessary, inken for their protection
there, we may yet see the day when the protect:
ing stars and stripes will wave over the whole
istand.

Our foreign policy will be entirely changed hy
the present war. We shall hereafter be compelled
to inaintain a navy sufliciont to protect ts against
any sudden raid upon our commerce by Great
Britain or France, and we shall need to acquire
territory for conling depots, and naval stations
abroad. At any rate, we must hold the supremacy
in American waters, as necessary for our satety.—
Grand Haven (Mich.) News. .

HAYTIAN POETRY.

Anniversaire du 22 Decembre.
(From I+ Moniteur Haitien.)
A Son Excellence le géacral, Gevinann, Prési-
dent dela Raablique a’ Hoiti.

Jen’ai fait que passer... .il n’étai. déa ptus!
Avant cethcurenux jour, ...iei réznait te denil!,.,.
Un trone remplacait le modeste fauteuil
De ce euerricr qui fut Pere de la patric;

L’auyruste liberte bien loin Gait bannie!

! Les prisons reyorgeaient d’innecen:s citoyens

Dont tout le crime Ciait de w’étre les soutiens

D'un sceptre doni le poids faisait courser ies tetes,
Comme sur fe roseau le sonffl es tenspetes!

De meme que Paurore au loin chasec la nuit,

Tu parns, 6 Geffrard! et letyran s’enfuit....
Chacun, en te voyant, dit: enfin je respire!

» “La Eberte revient reprendre son empire!”

La joic, aun meme instant, rempiaca ia terreur;....
wae ri
Kt da belle Hatti Vacddma son sauvenr!
. AMEDE DE Picnoy,
Pireetour de UEcol> de la Fraternité.
Port-au-Prince.

Anniversary of the 22d Dezcmb:r,
(Translation From “Le Moniteus Wartien.,
‘To His Excellency, the General Geffrard, Presi-
dent of the Republic of Hazti.
“T passed by... .and he was no more.”
Darkness brooded o’er the Nation,
Mourning reigned throu; hout the Jand~
On his throne of zold avd purple
Sata tyrant in command.

Liberty he dcomed to exile,
Janished her trom tus bright clime;
In our prisons wroaned bis victims,
Uncondemned of wrong or crime.

Yet they bowed not to the sceptre,
Which had caused ali heads to bend
Like a reet before the rempest,
Or the mighty rushing wind,

Bu: as night flees from the morning
Chaseil by the approach or day,

So, ot Geffrard! at thy coming,
Fled the tyrant far away.

' Each one, who,.at thy approaching,

i Hailed the:, said, “J breathe aguen ?”
i Joy and peace at once returnin:
Liberiy resumed her reizn.

Thon dost, in thy modest station,
All our uberties derend—
Anl we, as a ransomed Nation,
Own thee Hayti’s Saviour, Friend?

THE PINE AND PALA,
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY,
AT 221] WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON:
BY JAMES REDPATA, PROPRIETOR.
taf" Terms: Oae Dollar per annum. invariably in ad-
vance : 26 cents additional to Canadian subscribers, to cover
international postage.

EAD THIS !—A SUMMER ON THE BORDERS OF

THE CARIBBEAN SEA. By J. Dennis Harris. With

an Introduction by George William Curtis. 1 vol., ]2mo,
pp. 179. Price Tie. ~

— She principal subject of this interesting book is a visit

made to the island of Hayti. Mr. Harris is a resident of

™ “eland. He made the vovare to various peints on the

bbean Sea, with a view of asc. .

them possess such advantages of soil and climate as to mske
desirable abodes for those of the colored race in the United

ates who are desirous t i — i
States | 0 emigrate. —Cleceland, Ohio,

—Mr. Harris fs of opinion that it is the destiny of the
muiatto race to found in the islands of the Gulf and the
! provinces of Central America, an Anglo-African empire of a
i high degree of civilization. He denies the truth of what
; Some assert, that the mulatto race is not healthy and pro
| life, at least within the tropics, and cites the testimony of
of Moreau de St. Méry to prove that of all the inhabitants
of St. Domingo, the mulatto is the longese lived.—¥. Y¥.

CASCS cece eee ence need TERM... cece ese eeee eed | Evening Post,
Coffee pots, bxs.......2 C3, seecee eel? —Those who wish to know something of the history of
Corn shetle seven. OX... .. ee ceccececeed | (he island of Hay. will find it epitomized in this little work
We np > Sat - ; In 4 manner so happy and interesting, that they will not be
Duck, PCS... eee eee V Sails, pals. vette eens A | willing to lay it down even when done, and will be surprised
bolte teens Pa © bar. . { to find that” Prescott's felicitous pen has found 3 rival in
Beeaes . faerie BL ee ete ne eee ne ; that of a colored man. Few of our review-writers compare
Doors & blinds, pkgs pounds. ..... veeeeess0 | With him at all for elegance, clearness. and force.—Amieri-

‘can Baptist.

H Sent by mail to any address on receipt of the retail price.
For sale at the Office of THe Pine ayn Pain.

UST PUBLISHED
eo axp oF Havtt.—Thi:
, of the Repubiic of Haye

—CoLton’s Pocket Map oF THE Ist-

drawn after the "Gerard Map
“which is acknowledged to be the
It is of large size. and hand-

velops, pkg... 0.02.01 . --.3  somely bound. Price 50 cents. Sent. free of postage, to
essence, box. . wl eeeee 22 | any address, on receipt of the above amount. .
Flour, bbis....... 2f Snearmillarms.......4 | Atso—Cotrox’s Moustep Map oF tne Istaxp or Harti.
Furniture, pes... 34 Snot jar............1! Thi alane antl exquisitely finished Map of Hayti, on
boxes 3) Shinetes 195,009 ; Teller: dapted equally for the counting reom or the par
bp . ilies. . . iva, | , . 21.0—pesing ~, - Scher.
packages ...... handles, .......... 915 ee Se bestare or expusstce by the Publicner.
Firearms, bxs Shot 29 Ree ss 4G, 0 RTH Cottos, 18 Beekman street, New
s, bxs.... : eee 20 | .
Flannels, pkey. packaue..... . i

CIROULAR.-—No. I.

any class, will ve furnished with passports, who
cannot produce, before sailing, the proofs of good
; character for industry and integrity.

To each family of emigrants, tive carreaux ® of
fresh and. fertile land, capable of growmg all the
fruits and staples of the tropics, will be emuuit-
ously given, on the sole condition that they shall
sete on it and cultivate it, and declare their inten-
tion of becoming citizens of Hayti. To unmarried
men, on similar conditions, two carreaux will be
granted,

Board and lodging, free of cost, will be furnished
to the emigrants for at least eight days after their
arrival in the island,

The government also will find remunerative
work for those of you whose means will not per
mit you to begin immediately an independent
+ enttivation
‘Emigrants are invited to setde in commnnities.

Figs, drums........ seve 2) . . .
haivel.....0e0e., 1 Seaniling, ft. ....4,000 | To the Blacks, Men of Color, and Indians in the
rites. Tp pieces ee e133 United States and the British North American
Parnaces.... 0... seeeef2) Spirits, Dx... eee. 1 Provinces: . :
Furniture, bos “OR Spars... cccc cL dS | Friexps,—I am authorized and instructed by
pki : 30 Spikes, Kees. i! the Government of the Republic, to. offer you, in-
Vish bb "aa3 Saws, loose... yo! dividually and by communities, a welcome, a heme,
’ packase: . 2 and a fire homestead, in Hayt.
Spirits mm “a4 Such of you as are mnabls to pay for your pas-
package irri P sae will be provided with the means of detray-
. Sugar doiler.........00 ) PRM + alte tna?
“""1F Steet pens, gross. 1... 2 | ['wo classes of emigrants are especially invited
2 Solder, be”. 1} —laborers and tarmers, None of either class, or

=
FA
hh
7%
Z
é
=
Ss
=
=
"%
z
az
2
é
an
So
a
3
ca
SF
2
Z
3
ag
}
a
-
o

he emigrants,

The fullest religious liberty will be secured to
them; they will never be called on to support tho
; Roman Catholie Chureh.

No military service will be demanded of them,
! excepting that they shall form military companies
! and drill themselves once a month.

All the necessary personal effects, machinery and
agricultural instruments introduced by the emi-
grants shall be entered free of duty,

The emigrants shall be at liberty to leave tho
country at any moment they please; Dut thoae
whose passage shall be paid by government, it
they wish to return before the expinuion of three
years, Will be required to refund the money ex-
pended on their account. A contract, fiximg tho
amount, will be made with each emigrant vefors
leaving the continent,

I have been commissioned to superintend the
interests of the emigrants, and charged with tho
entire control of the movement in America, and
all persons, therefore, desiring to avail themselves
of the invitation aud bounty of the Haytian Gov-
ernment are requested to correspond with me.

Ishall at once, as directed by the Government
establish a burean of emigration in Boston, and
publish a Guide Book for the use of those persons
of African. or Tndinn descent who may wish to
make themselves acquainted with the resources of
the conntry and the disposition of its authorities,

Ushall also appoint Agents to visit such com.
munities as may seriously entertain the project of
omigration,

tanediate arrangements, doth herw and in

packages ... 2.2) Wire. sieve... lt

SHOS. ccc. cceeeee ee 12) Webbing, pkg........1
Linseed oil, als... .225 Dale. . sesenel

other pkys.........27) Whips, 1 |

Ase,
Lead, kegs. .........087 Wooden ware, pinces. .6
Pols. oc. . cece eee ee & Yellow metal, pkg... ot

Antes, sets...... . 8 Mastard, plkgs........3
Almonds, pkygs........3 > Matehes, cases. ...0 0.08
Alchohol, gals .... DONS... eee eee
As implements pkgs Mattress Sr |
Alisplee, bags. ..2.....2 Mats. eee 2
Bricks (toy) box......1 Medicines, pkgs 7
Batting, bales. .......13 5 Mirrors, enses, B |
Bedstends.........0..75 box ...... al
Bedding, phys. .......87) Musie stool... .. al

Dales. 0... cee Mackerel, tbs, ...,.9,097

pickayo.... wok Zine, vols. .....6.80 02
Lampblack, bbls... 10

Hayti, ean be made for the embarkment and settle:
ment of one Indra thousand persons,
Ry onder of the Government of the Republic of
Mayti. JAMES REvprath,
General Agent af Emigration.
Bostox, Nov. 3, 1830.

* A carreau is 3 acres and 3} pods,

TRL A

The Pine and Palm.

YEAR NUMBER, 8

BOSTON: THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1862.

eee

WHOLE NUMBER, 136.

3M

BS
4

°
cs

displeased. .

Sis

*

eke ety

aunt:
Shee Les tome,

i Cilhee Sit

rae
ReLencent

he

ted

Che Apper Branches.

Tho Spreading Speck.
(eno Tate pERstas.]

On every haman soul their lies

A little dusky speek of sin,

As small as avanote’s eve in size:

But whea that speek dosh once bezin

To work, it switt and switt extends,

Tith the whole soul it comprehends,

And all iis powers averclou ts

With condemuation’s hander-stirouds,

Then fierce and far the fear fires flash,

And dite and dread the doom-bolts dash.

Thus doth the sin-speck spread, in sight,

O'er all the sont a batetel night,—

A blotting nightof horrer deep,

That Knows no dawn and knows no sleep!

The First Consul, heating the
inose of Rapp’s footsteps in the adjoining
j ball, went out quickly and discovered him
j near the wall which separated the cabinet
j fom the hall.

“You are not willing to understand me, I
find 7" said the First Censnl. | desire to
jhe alone with my countryman"

“A Corsican 2° replied the aide-de-camp.
Tam too suspicious of those people to..."
The First Consul could not help smiting,
rand pushed his faithful officer out gently by
‘the shoulders.

“Well, what brings thee here, my poor

| Bartholumeéo 7? said the First Consul to

f
{
i
!
'

Che Lal.
THE VENDETTA.

HY BALZAC,

Translated from the French for The Pine and Palm.

In the year E800, towards the end of Ov-
tober, a stranger, accompanied by a won !

’ Piombe,
| “To ask shelter and protection from thee,
if thon art a true Corsiean,”? answered Bar-

“* tholoméo, in an abrupt tone,

“What misfortune has driven thee from:
ithy native land 7 ‘Thou wast the richest, the
Most ———"”
“1 have killed all the Portas,” replied the
j Corsican, ina deep tone, and knitting his
eyebrows. ’
‘The Consul took two steps backward, as if

and a little girl, found himself in front of the: strack with astonishment,

Tuileries in Paris; and) paused for a’ con-
siderable time near the rubbish of a- recently
demolished building, at the place where the
wing intended to unite the palace of Catha-

rine de Médieisto the Louvre of the Valois,

“Art thou going to betray me? exclaimed
: Bartholoméo, regarding Bonaparte with a
‘wloomy stare. } ost thou know that there
care still four Piombo in| Corsica?’

Lucien took his countryman hy the arm,

Ju H SOUepar eet t femal ' ; H 4
is now in process of erection, He remained | and shook him, saying anerily :

there, ina standing positon, with folded |
arms and bowed head, whieh he oveasioually
raised to. survey the consular palace, or to

“Dost thou come here to threaten the pre-
server of France ?”
| Bonaparte made a sign to Lucien, who re-

glance at his wile seated near tim on mained silent. ‘Then looking at Piombo, he

stone.
Although the female seemed to be ovenpied

solely in fondling the black curls of the little
girl, apparently between nine and ten years
old, yet she noticed every look which her

companion cast upon her. A common senti-
ment, different from love, united these two
beings, actuating their thoughts and motions
with the same disquietude.

The stranger bad one of those large and

noble heads, covered with thick masses of

hair, so often delineated by the pencil of the
Carrachois. These intensely black — iocks
were thickly interspersed with gray.
features. although proud and noble, had a
harsh expression which spoiled them. Not-
withstanding his activity and upright figure,
he appeared to be more than sixty years of
age ; and the style of his ragged clothing in-
dicated that he came from a foreign country.

Ils:

casked :

, Why, then, hast thou killed the Portas?”
“We had made up our qiarrel,”’ he re-
plied; “the Barbanti had reconciled us.
ithe day following the one on which we
i touched glasses to drown our animosities, |
cleft them, because 1 had business at Bastia.
They remained at my house, and set fire to
my villa at) Lengone. ‘They killed ny
:sop Gregorio; but my daughter Ginevra
aml my wile escaped them; they had

UP IN TMB AIR,

Some few months back | was eatled in—I
ama surgeon by profession—to attend a
Sefior ‘Tornados, who, despite his name, was
as truo an nglishinan, by birth and pa-
rentaye, as the parish of Lambeth ever bred
znd reared. TP found hin: suffering from ex-
treme debility and nervousness, brought on
hy the over-strained tension of the muscles
and sinews, He told me that he was a rope
dancer, slack and tight; a tumbler, stiff and
loose; and many other things which have
eseaped my memory,

Hlis family consisted of his wife—a pale,
sickly woman, somewhat older than himself’
—anl avery handsome little girl, Ac-
customed as | was to witness the devotion of
women by a sick hedside, and the irritability
of male patients, the self-sacrifice of Madame
Tornados, and the demonstrative gratitude of
her husband for each aet of attention, sur-
prised me. He was under my care for some
months, and as he recovered, grew talkative
wud familiar, One evening, as he sat in an
easy chair, propped up by pillows, he favored
me with the following narrative. | purposely
suppress any professional technicalities and
acrobatic arged, whieh would be unintelligi-
bie to the ordinary reader.

“You see, sir,” he began, “ny father was
a hawker over in: Lambeth. | never knew
my mother, because she died when Twas
quite young, LT don’t know how it was |

went up, and when we had risen a certain
distance we got out of the ear and commenced
the performance. It seemed odd to me at
first, tumbling and swinging in the air, with
the pardens and the audience, and the houses
and the trees such a depth beneath us; but
what struck me as most curious was when
we hung head downwards, and looked up at
the clouds. I used to feel that the earth
could not be so far distant, for high as we
had risen, the sky seemed as far off from us
as ever.

Our performances gave great satisfaction,
and were favorably noticed in the daily and
weekly papers. We were told that the act
that thrilled the audience most, was the one
we performed last before descending. Ran-
ford, who was a heavier man than’ [, hung
head downward, then taking hold of both his
hands with both mine, [ swung by their sup-
port; and then by way of ahmax, I let go
my left hand and hung only by my right. |
never felt the least fear. We knew each
other’s grip and it was allright.

At first the ceronaut went up with us, but
after a few times we were able to manage for
ourselves so well that had an accident hap-
pened to one, the other could have gone
safely down.
We were carning a great deal of money
but T noticed that Mrs. Ranford looked paler
wud) more careworn every day, and I knew
how her husband was conducting himself by

‘taken the sacrament that morning, and
the Virgin protected them. U,on my
return, my house was gone —1 walked
among its ashes. Suddenly 1 stumbled over
the hody of Grégorio, which f recounized by
‘the light of the moon = ‘Oh!’ said T to my-
sel, ‘this is the Portas’ work.’ T went  im-
‘mediately and collected some men to whom I
-had rendered services,—dost thou understand, |

learned tumbling. ‘The first thing Lean re-
member was standing on my head by West |
minster Bridge, and a gentleman going hy |
wave mea shilling, ‘Now my boy, the |
gentleman said, ‘do that again? which 1;
did. ‘Now,’ said he, ‘spring ? which L did,
and came on iny feet again, That gentle-|
man, sir, was the great Mr, Ducrow. Well, |
sir, of course, after seh encouragement from ;
such x» man, a tumbler [beeame. LE spared

‘neither pains nor trouble, and practised tilt 1:
;beeame master of my art, and head of my ;
profession,

t
.
About) seven years ago—T was just!

twenty three—I first) met James Ranford, |

{who was also in’ my line and proposed that |
we should work together. 1 consented, and !
iwe travelled about and exhibited at town : fell upon the floor ina fit. I picked up the
halls and assembly rooms, and kurge rooms | payor, put it in my pocket, and placed the
catinus; but we did very badly. Rantord
[had a wife and child, so it tell harder on him. | the room half drunk, half mad, and scowled
id was forced to lend him what little Leould | gt me like a demon. , ,

spare, for 1 could not see a young woman |

that, She often told me that she wished they

; were poor again, as he had been much kind-

er in those times.

One night—I shall never forget it—I was
returning home from the gardens, and as [
passed the door of Ranford’s lodgings, little
Evelina’s nurse ran out to me and said:

‘For heaven’s sake, sir, go in. Master
and missus have hada dreadful quarrel, and
missus is a going to kill herself.’

I ran into the house. I found the parlor
door open. Alrs. Ranford was in the room
alone ; her back was towards me, but I could

jsee her tace in the large mirror that stood

over the ekimmey piece. She had a razor in
her hand, and was about to use it on herself
when she caught the reflection of my face in
the glass, She stopped, turned round, and

poor woman on a sofa, Ranford came inte

[ expostulated, and tried to reason with

struck him, and knocked him into the bottom
of the ear, where he lay growling and swear-
ing till we came to the ground.

Next morning I called on the proprietor
of the gardens, and told him all. ‘To my in-
(enso astonishment, he flatly refused to cancel
our engagement, and said our quarrels were
nothing to him; that an engagement was an
agreement, and business was business; that
the performance drew crowds of visitors, and
he insisted on its continuance. I told him
that T would not risk my life again, and he
threatened me with an action for breach of
contract. Shortly after I got an engagement
at Glasgow and left London without either
seeing Hanford or his unfortunate wife and
child.

‘Two years passed away, during which I
heard but little of my partner. While I was
performing at Manchester, I heard of an old
friend of mine, of the name of Coobie, being
ata circus in a neighboring town. I took
the train and went over to see him. We
Jined, and at seven o’clock we went together
to the circus, Lounging near the entrance I
saw Ranford. Ife was considerably altered
—thinner, and if possible, more evil-eyed
than ever.

- ‘T know that man,’ I said to Coobie.

‘T know you do,’ my friend replied.
‘He calls himself the execelsior, or cham-
pion somersault thrower of the world. He
isin the bills fur a somersault to-night.’

‘You know, sir, that a treble somersault
means standing on a spring board, throwing
your heels up, and turning completely round
three times in the air before you light upon
your fect. Tneed not say that it is a very
difficult thing to do,’

[ said to Coobie; ‘it’s odd that a man
who drinks so hard should be capable of
such a ‘feat.’

‘Ilis engagement depends on it,’ was the
reply ; ‘we're full in every other line.’

“The governer told him that he’d sign
articles with him for that, but not for any-
thing else. Ih! he sees you.’

IT turned around and saw Ranford walking
quickly from us. I entered the cireus ; and
was accommodated with a seat in the orches-
tra. TI could not help thinking of my old
partner, and had a strange nervousness upon
me as if something was about to happen ; but
the feeling wore off when Ranford came into
the ring. ‘The audience applauded loudly,
for he had thrown a treble somersault twice
hefore, and was a favorite in consequence.

For a long time after the flight of the Lees,
General McDowell, though quartered on the
grounds, refused to enter the Arlington
House. A scrupulous respecter of private
rights, he would neither oceupy, nor allow to
he occupied by his officers or men, any por-
tion of the mansion, which, in his opinion,
belonged to Gen. Jee quite as much as
though he still made his home within its mas-
sive walls, When the confiscation act was
passed by Congress, and a telegraph opera-
tor had taken possession of one of the best
rooms, he was still reluctant to enter the old
building, on account of the Washington
memories clustering around it, and it was at
last by foree of cireumstances, rather than
his own free will, that he made it his head-
quarters. T'or a long time access to the up-
per rooms was forbidden, and even the cellar
was not open to curious visitors. The daubs
of Mr. Custis, nicknamed historical paint-
ings, which so clearly demonstrate that, how-
ever true a patriot that worthy descendant of
the Washington family may have been, he
was hy no means an artist, and which Mrs.
Lee had shown good taste in leaving behind,
were most carefully guarded. Never did
tenant use a house more gingerly. Relies of
inestimable value might have slumbered in
its upper chambers, or had quiet preserva:
tion in its basement rooms, forever and aye
had none but Gen. MeDowell entered the
venerable premises.

But there lately came to Washington a
curiosity hunter—an antiquarian, vigorous
and insatialle—an enthusiast in Washington
relies—Caleb Lyon by name—he of Lyons-
dale, who, disdaining the letters of Mrs. Lee,
sought permission to unveil the deepest re-
cesses of the establishment. He searched
the house from foundation to roof-tree. * Fortu-
nate search! for in an inner cellar he found
a priceless prize, in a variety of household
articles identified as belonging to Washington;
but which one less familiar with the history
of Mount Vernon and Arlington would have
passed by as of no especial interest or value.

Among these articles are a number of
pieces of the Martha Washington china.
Lhe centre of each piece has the monogram
“M. W.,” from which four golden rays di-
verge, each point reaching to a blue oval, in
which, in distinet rings, connected by golden
links, are written the names of the original
States and Kentucky, while around the rim
the Lgyptian symbol of eternal union—a
green serpent witlr its tail in its mouth—and

on its summit durin the ni bt, to guide ship

to the harbor. 8 eh, to ge m

The seven wonders of the world are: The

Art of Printing; Optical Instruments, such as

the Telescope and Microscope ; Gunpowder;

theStenm Hapine; Labor-siving Machinery;
the Electric Telegraph; and Photography. °
[Translated for the Liberator from the Boston Ploweer.}

In Memory of One Dead.

When, on the snow-spread heights of Alpineland,
The traveller climbs, with anxious fears o’ertaken,
No tempest need Its voice of thuniléer send; .
_ From its light sleep the avalanche to waken:
Enough the tinkling of a pack-horse bell,
The starving cry of raven faint and wearied,—
The first flake loosened in the course, pellmell
Snow masses follow, towns beneath are buried.

Brimming the goblet: add but one drop more,
_It bubbles over, with impaticnt seeming :
Even a rose-leaf proves a load too sore
For a tired people, and they leave off dreaming,
Only a shock is nceded, to repay :
The martyr’s thousand pains on his tormentor,—
Only aclod to stand on, and away
The wise man stirs the planet from its centre.

Joun Brown, thou wast the bell that jingled out,
Thou wast the raven shricking, hunger-wasted,
Thou wast the flake that, loosening, Jed the rout,
Thou wast the clod whereon Fate’s Jever rested,
Now, down upon the head of Slavery,
Thunders the avalanche by thee excited,
Grinding and crushing to the vale, and, free,
O'er he drones’ grave the work-bce hums de-
behted.

A conscious victim, to the holy fray .
Thou marchedst forth, thy faithful twenty taking;
Grappledst the foe in such couraccous way,
Their craven souls, old Hon! for fright were quak-
ing.
Two days, the State two whole days heldest thou
In check before the lighting of thy rifie.— =»
That even the shadow of an ancient cow
Called for a thousand troops her fears to stifie.

And when a blow had brought thee to the ground,
And thy Iast bulwark fell, in fragments shivered,
No victor’s merey covered thee around,
Nor from his chivalric assanlt delivered.
Captive thon wast, hke wild beast in a pit,
The chains already clanked for thee unbeeding,
Yet came and stabbed thee with his bayonet
A gallant offtcer—poor prisoner, bleeding!

And as along the wires clectric sped
The unwonted tale, through town and city ham-
ming,
Many a patriot woke as from the dead,
Eager to greet the hour of Freedom’s coming.
But who before had raised the loudest cry,
And of all people most of freedom prated,
These shouted: Madman! Madman! Crucify!
Nought by his crazy act is indicated.

They saw the flake alone, nor ever thought
That then, even then, the avalanche was falling;
They dabbled on, until the sword was wrought
Wherewith strode Justice to her work appalling.
Laughing they saw thy gallows built, and thee, -
Jounx Brown, defying death, upon it dangling,
And dared to dream, in their simplicity,
That they all Freedom’s friends with thee were
strangling.

Although the once beautiful bat now faded | Bonaparte Y—and we set out for the villa of

‘and a little baby go without while [ had it, him: 1 ceri i
mn: “ay § , adit shim; but he only made me jeering replies
countenance of the female betrayed a deep-' the Portas. We reached there at five o’elock , , sv hacchak wot

; , ‘T saw th: yas not sober, ¢
could 1? w that he was not sober, and I

a crimson ribbon bearing the legend, ‘“Decut

seated sorrow, yet she always met her hus-
band’s look with a foréed smile, in assuming
a placid countenance.

The little girl remained standing, notwith-
standing the fatigue manifest in her young,
sunburnt countenance — Fler large black eyes

beneath well arched eyebrows a naturel dig-
nity and gracefulness. bespoke Ttalian blood.
More than one by-passer was struck with the
appearance of this groupe, whose members
made no effort to conceal a despair as pro-
found as its expression was simple; but the
source of that momentary concern witch
characterizes the Parisian, dried up quickly.
As soon as the unknown felt himself to be
the object of some loiterer's attention, he

turned upon him so fierce a look, that the !

boldest luunger quickened his pace as though
he had trod upon a serpent.
After remaining for a long while undecided,

the tall stranger passed his hand acrovs bis -

forehead ; chasing from it, so to speak, te
thoughts which had furrowed it with wrinkles,
and doubtless took a desperate resolve. Cist-

ing a piercing glance upon his wife and child, |

he drew from his vest a long poinard, and
held it towards his companion, saying to her
in [talian :

“Tai going to see if the Bonapartes re-

t .
‘the presenee of Gad.
jthat Bleza Vanni saved a child, the little

;the island with my wife and daughter, with-

yavese loin t
veing thle

‘in the morning, and at seven they were all in |
Giacomo pretends |

; Luigi: but T had fastened him to his bed my-
iself, before setting fire to the house. I lett
ne ° to 8ertam if 1 were true
‘that Luigi Porta still survived.”

Bonaparte looked at Bartholoméo with cu-
riosity, but without astonishment,

| How many of them were there?” asked
‘ Lucien.

| Seven,” Piomho replied. ‘They were
your persecutors in times past,” he said to
them; but as these words did not excite any
-expression of hatred on the part of the broth- |
ers, Bartholoméo exclaimed, with a sort of |
despair: ‘Ah! you are ne longer Corsicans:
, Adieu! Formerly, I protected you,’’ he
added, in a tone of reproach. ‘But for me,
your mother would not have reached Mar-
seilles,” said he, addressing himself te Bona-

‘ : ‘ 3 ceoay * nytt ’ 4 r
parte, who remained thoughtful, his elbow | suppose these are your real names?’ We

resting on the mantel-piece.

*Piombo,” Napoleon replied, “T cannot
‘conscientiously take you under my protection.
TL have become the head of a great nation ; |
‘command the Republic, and 1 ought to cause

14 should interfere. Luwever, 1 used to chevi

we should do, when the squire’s son anda

‘the laws to be executed.”
member u3.”” | “Ah! al?’ said Bartholoméo,

He then walked with a slow and confident | “But [ can shut my eyes,” continued Bo-
step towards the entrance to the palace, where, ' naparte. ‘The prejudice of the vendetta
as a matter of course, he was stopped by the ! will, for a long tine, prevent the supremacy
consular guard, with whom he could not long : of the Jaws in Corsica,” he added, speaking
hold a controversy. ‘The sentinel, pereeiving ' to himself. “It must, however, be destroyed,
the unknown’s obstinacy, presented his bayo- | at all hagards.””
net to him as a sort of udttmahen.

It!

and the corporal very politely directed the from right to left, in token of dissatisfaction.
stranger to the place where he might find the! ‘Remain here,’ resumed the Consul, ad-
commanding oflicer. i dressing Bartholoméo, “we shall know noth-
“fell Bonaparte that Bartholoméo dil ing of it. Twill procure the sale of your
Piombo wishes to speak with him,” said the property, so as to furnish you, at the outset,
Ttalian to the captain on duty. i with the means of living. ‘Then, after a while,
The officer vainly endeavored to make | hy-and-by, we will think about you.
Bartholoméo understand that the First Consul more, vendetta? If thou playest with the
could not be scen without an audience having | dager here, expect no mercy. Here, the
been previously demanded in writing ; the law protects every citizen, and people do not
stranger insisted upon his message being con- | take the administration of justice in their own
veyed to Bonaparte. ‘The officer, pleading | hands,”
the nature of his instructions, refused posi-! “Te has made himself head of a strange
tively to obey the command of this singular | country,” replicd Bartholoméo, taking the
applicant. Bartholoméo knit his brows, cast hand of Lucien, and pressing it. “But you

| less Siamese of Syria?

| Bonaparte remained silent for a moment, |
chanced, just at this moment, that the guard !and Lucien made a sign to Piomby ta be still. | that our geod luck only caused my partner
came to relieve the sentincl from his duty, "The Corsican was already shaking his head

But no !

a terrible look at the commanding officer, and ! recognized me in a misfortune that shall bind
seemed to hold him responsible for all the‘ us for life, or death, and you may dispose of
evils which his refusal might occasion. ‘all the Piombos.”

He kept silence, however, folded his arms |
tightly across his breast, and took a position hecame smooth, and he gazed around him
under the portico which forms a communica: ' with satisfaction, “You are not hadly off
tion between the court-yard and the garden of ' here,” said he, smiling, as if he would ‘like
the Tuileries. People who ardently desire a | to take up his residence there ; “and thou
thing, are nearly always favored by chance. art dressed in red, like a cardinal.”

At the moment that Bartholoméo di Piombo! “She possession of a palace, in Paris, de-
sat down on one of the stone curbs near the! pends solely on thyself,’ said Bonaparte,
entrance to the Tuileries, Lucien Bonaparte, | using the familiar (tow in addressing his
at that time Minister of the Interior, arrived, ' countryman. “TI frequently have occasion
and stepped out of a carriage. ito look around me for a devoted friend in

“Ab! Lucien. [ am very fortunate in! whom I can confide.”

!* cried the stranger. The broad chest of Piombo heaved with

mecting you!
These words, spoken with the Corsican | joyful emotion, and extending his hand to the
lirst Consul, he said :

patois, arrested Lucien as he was entering
the arch ; he looked at his countryman, and} “There is something of the Corsican re-
recognized him. maining in thee still!”

At the first word which Bartholoméo whis- {10 ne coNTINUED.]

pered in hig ear, be drew the Corsican along +
with him. Murat, Lannes, Rapp, were as-| = —J]Ie who turns from evil habits docs him-
sembled in the Cabinet of the First Consul. | self a good turn.
Upon the entrance of Lucien, followed hy a
man of Piombo’s singular appearance, the
conversation ceased. Lucien seized Napoleon
by the hand, and led him into the embrasure
of the window. After exchanging a few
words with his brother, the I*irst Consul made
a gesture with his hand, which Murat and
Jones obeyed by retiring ; but Rapp pre-
tended not to have noticed it, in order to re-| stated, will yield, this year, ten thousand
main. Bonaparte having addressed him | tons of copper, valued at four millions of dol-
harply, the aido-de-camp departed, ovidently ° lars.

a

>

—Dress plainly ; the thinnest soap-bubbles
wear the gaudiest colors.

—Most books in these days are like some
kinds of trees—a great many leaves and no
fruit.

—The Lake Superior copper mines, it is

[him. ‘The sensation was singular. 1 ean-
‘not deseribe it; but I liked it very much.
The ceronaut showed me how he managed to
At these words, the brow of the Corsican | steer through the air, when to throw out the

Well, sir, things got from bad to worse |
and my partner, being a man of violent
temper, took to drink—he was always given
to that way—and, [am sorry tosay, he used
to heat his wife. Sometimes my blood has
boiled, and 1 have walked away for fear that

up the missus as well as I could, and nurse
the little girl, and they both grew to like me
very much.

One night at a place called Peddicthorpe,
we had no audience at all. We were with- |

: |
out money, and were asking each other what

lot of young gentlemen came in and asked us
to perform for them, which we did ; and they
gave us a couple of sovereigns, and more than
that asked us to supper at the hotel, After
supper the squire looked at ohe of our bills
of the day, and said, ‘Hollo! why TE see you
exll yourself Messrs. J. Ranford and W. |
Keer. No wonder you get no audiences. 1)

answered that they were.

‘Oh, that'll never do,’ he said. ‘You
must have an adées; you musn’t let the
public suppose that you are Englishmen. It
is contrary to the rules of professional
etiquette. You must make out that you are
foreigners.’

Well, at that, all the gentlemen began to
laugh; but it was settled before we broke up
that night that, for the future, we were to
call ourselves “The two Noscari—the spine-

Well, sir, from that moment Ranford) and
I began to do well; but fam sorry to say

to drink the harder, and in consequence, to
hehave more badly to his wife. His child he
certainly was very fond of, partly, I think,
beeause he had only known her for a short
time, for Ranford was one of those men who
liked new faces. As soon as he met a
stranger he was all life and spirit, and he
would do anything or go anywhere to oblige
him; but when he had known aman for
some time, he didn’t care for him, but grew
cross and contradictory.

At last we got an engagement at a garden
near London, where there was a grand gala
night every week, on which a balloon as-
cended, | seraped aequaintance with the
zeronaut, and one evening [ went up with

sand, and how {to descend. As we were
sailing over Lonton, he sid to me :

‘You couldn't do the slack rope up here,
Foseari, could you ?

‘Why not ? [said ; and as T spoke the
idea flashed upon me what a splendid feature
in the programme it would be ;—‘Perilous
performance of the two Foscari Brothers,
who will go through with their inimitable
evolutions on a slack wire suspended from a
balloon thousands of yards above the surfuce
of the earth !? A balloon, [ thought, could
hear the weight of (wo men outside it. ‘The
wire could be fastened to the sides of the ear,
and when ata sufficient height, we could get
out and perform,

As soon as T reached the ground T went to
Ranford, who first laughed at the notion and
then agreed to it. ‘The proprictor of the
garden asked us to name our terms. We
did so. He tried to beat us down, but at
longth consented, and we went up and did
it.”

T interrupted him by asking if the danger
was not extreme.

“Not a bit,” replied my patient. “Tf T
fall from a wire fifty fect from the ground,
the chances are that T should break my neck ;
if I fell from a height of fifty miles I could
dono more. Then if our feet iiss, we have

such as, ‘Oh, I understand-—hetter than you
think for;? ‘Pm nota foul’? ‘IT have got |
eyes anfl can see!’ and sow and [ left the
house with a heavy heart.

Next day the nurse-girl t© me that Ran-
ford was jealous, and that he-at d his wife had
quarreled about me. We + Géinted that
night. He never spoke to p., _ L-te- bs
We both twirled and tumbled up im tne alr,
without exchanging a word |

When we got down I felt inclined to give
him a good thrashing for his unjust suspicions;
but L kept my temper for the sake of the
por woman, and so we went on for cight or
ten days.

Our next ascent took place on the gala
night of the United Order of Ancient ‘Toxo-
pholites. It was a still summer night, with-
outa breath of wind. We ascended till the
gardens, and the streets, and the churches
luoked like Dutch toys, and then got out
upon the rope.

As I took my seat behind Ranford, I
noticed that he had been drinking more than
usual. He had lately taken to an old way
of knitting his eyes, and smiling with his
lips tight pressed together, and what with
knit rows, white tights, spangled trunks,
and the bit of ribbon round his head, with a
paste star in the centre, he looked as he sat
swinging backward and forward in the air,
more like an evil being than a man.

We went through our performance, all
but the last trick. As [ was swinging from
his two hands, the thought came into my
head, if he should not hold on !

As L let go with my left hand, and
swung only by my right, I heard his voice
above me.

‘Keer,’ he said, ‘are you guilty or not ?
‘Lasked what he meant.’

‘You know,’ he answered. ‘Confess that
you have wronged me; speak the truth ?
They are your last words! [have but to
loose my grip, and down you go!

1 tried to seize the disengaged arm, but
he held it above my reach, and put his other
in such a position that [ could not cxtteh at it,
but swung entirely at his merey.

L leaped to reach the rope with my feet,
and so hang by my heels, but I failed. 1
shut my eyes aud prayed Heaven to forgive
me. ‘very act of my past life rushed
through my brain; at the same timo | was
perfectly conscious of everything about me—
the blue sky, the quiet evening, the rope, the
bottom of the ear, and Rantord’s head in-
verted over me. T[ thought what time 1
should be falling. I knew how slowly the
sand sank from the ear, and what a long time
T should be dying cre 1 reached the earth.’

1 found strength to speak.

‘Ranford,’ [ said, ‘you are mistaken.’

‘You lie!’ ho answered.

‘If you Iet go my hand yon are a mur-
derer. ‘There will bo an inquest.’

‘L don’t care.’

‘It is known that there was ill-blood
between us,’ I continued. ‘You may be
hanged. Your wife will say you were jeal-
ous.’

‘A wife cunnot give evidence agatust her
husband 2

I knew the next moment [ should be
falling through the air, A’ spasm shot to
my heart. T fancied [ saw the bottom of the
ear rising from ine. I felt the grasp of his
fingers loosen! With tho strength of
desperation, | leaped up and caught his wrist
with my disengaged hand. I climbed up
his body. I knew not how till I reached
the perch, and thenee into the ear, where I
lay panting for breath, and trembling like a
hare.

He soon fullowed me.

‘I frightened you, didn’t I? ho said.
‘You don’t suppose I meant it, do you?

‘I made no answer, but prepared for the
descent. While arranging the cordage our

ray

our hands to hold on by. However, wo

hunds met. I could not bear bis touch. I

noticed that he had the same little star
upon his forehead that he wore the last time
we made an ascent together. While the
grooms were altering the position of the

spring-board, he walked up to the orchestra,

and, with the old devilish smile unnn his
face, said to me: ,
Rue Ue & avo ay ayy Lbewtayg = wisns ove .
You will come!’ .
‘Ranford,’ I whispered, ‘you’re no your-
self to-night; take my advice—don’t throw
the treble !’
‘IIe swore an oath, and then burst into
loud laugh.’
‘You wan’t me to fail, do you?’ he said.
‘Fail when you’re here! Hi—youp la P
‘He ran up on the spring-board, bowed,
and kissed his hands. ‘The music began.
He threw several single somersaults, then a
double one; then he stopped, and crossed his
arms and looked at me. The audience was
very enthusiastic, and he again repeated the
performance and stopped again, ‘There was
more applause. Then he turned towards me,
smiling as if he said, ‘Now’—and went to
work a third time. He got the spring and
over he went—once, twice. My heart rose
in my mouth, for I saw that he had no room
to turn a third time. His head eame down
with a horrible ¢2d among the tan and saw-
dust ; and he lay in the ring, doubled up and
dead !’

A. surgeen came out of the boxes, who
said that his neck was broken, and that death
must have been instantancous. I fainted.
When Ieame to, T saw his body being ear-
ried out of the ring.

‘Well, sir, I was pitched upon to be the
bearer of the sad news to the widow. I'll
pass over that. I was surprised to find that
in spite of his cruel usage, she was still very
fond of him. IT kissed the child, who had
grown a fine little girl, and returned to
Manchester the next day, [attended the
funeral, of course. Lanford hardly left a
pound behind him. 1 gave the widow an
address that would always find me, and told
her to whenever—when—if she wanted—
that ig, whenever she required assistance.’

‘Pirst the poor thing tried to set up a
school for ehildven, but that failed, and
knowing that she mus’ sometinies be pressed I
often sent to her. 1 don’t know how it came
about, but, after a long correspondence and a
courtship, I married her ; and here she comes
with my beef tea—and here comes Evelina ;
for that’s the very woman, sir, and that’s the
very little girl and a real beauty she is !”’

ee ne © i
NIE WASHINGTON FAMILY RELICS,

When Mrs, Lee left the Arlington fouse,
some time after her traitorous husband had
joined the confederate army, she undextook
to earry with her all the Washington relies
which had been so jealously preserved by her
patriotic father, George Washington Parke
Custis. Repeatedly she wrote to General
MeDowell, with whom she had been ac-
quainted as her husband's associate on the
staf of Gen. Wool, during the Mexican war,
that she had left nothingat Arlington in any
way conneeted with the public or domestic
life of the Father of his Country. What
Mrs. Lee, or any one favoring Secession and
rebellion could want with relics which must
be x constant reminder of him who said,—
“Whatever measures have a tendency to dis-
solve the Union, or contribute to violate or
lessen the sovereign authority, ought to be
considered as hostile to the liberty and inde-
pendence of America, and the authors of
them treated accordingly,” cannot easily be
imagined. Nor is it surprising that, after all
their protestations to the contrary, the wife of
the Confederate General should have left be-
hind some of the choicest and most valuable
mementoes of the home life of him whose
wise teachings both she and her husband
havo so thoroughly ignored.

et tutamen abilto,” exquisitely painted, com-
pletes the decoration, which, for richness and
appropriateness has never been excelled at
Sevres.

This set of porcelain was presented by
fdawannt To fincntae 2 DON .
wenerat dsuntyette «una nis brother officers,
including, Rochambheanand Sonat, de, Grasse.
house had been their home while fighting the
battles of the Revolution, and also with the
sanction and subscription of the Mayor of the
municipality of Paris. The set originally
contained four hundred’ pieces. A plate, a
saucer, or a cup, were occasionally presented
by Mrs, Washington or Mr. Custis as the
choicest souventr they could give of the
household relics of Mount Vernon. Speci-
mens are in possession of the widow of Maj.
Gen. Brown, the family of the Alderman
Peters, Major Popham, Caleb Lyon and
others ; and it was from a familiarity with
the one given to the latter gentleman some
years sinee hy Mr. Custis, that he was able
to promptly identify the remainder of the set
remaining at Arlington.

‘Two of the rich porcelain vases presented
to Washington by Mrs. Vaugh, and sketched
by Lossing in his “Mount Vernon and its
Associations’ —those ornamented-with lions
and tigers—were also brought to light by
Mr. Lyon. The one deeorated with leopards
has not been discovered, and is probably lost.
The ground work of these vases is of the
finest and rarest blue, but they are somewhat
broken.

It will be remembered that the officers of
the Revolutionary Army, belonging to the
Society of Cineimati, sent to China an
order for a thousann pieces, including break-
fast, dinner, and teo sets, of the finest India
ware, for presentation to Washington. ‘The
ornamentation is blue and gilt, with the
coat of arms of the society, held by Fame,
with a blue ribbon from which is suspended
the eagle of the order, with a green wreath
abqut its neck, and on its breast a shield re-
presenting the inauguration of the order.
Altogether fifty picees of this set yet remain
at Arlington, more or less perfeet. The tea
table used by Washington and one bookcase
also remain. General MeDowell has ren-
dered Mr. Lyon every facility for brushing
up these interesting relies, and expects an
order from the War Department to place
them in the patent office or Smithsonian
Institute. They would be perfectly safe at
Arlington while the General remains there,
but to guard against the carelessness of those
who may come after him, when the long:
promised advance begins, and to gratify the
public, it is doubtless wise to so dispose of
the precious articles.—Cor, V. Y, Evening
Post.

Stray Leaves.

Tne Ssyex On ayo tHE Srvex New.——
The seven wonders of the world were: Ist,
the Egyptian Pyramids. The largest of these
is GO feet square and 469 feet high, and its
base covers 11 1-2 acres of ground. 2d, the
Mausoleum, erected to Mausolus, king of
Caria, by his widow, Artemisia. Jt was 73
fect long and 35 feet high. 3d, the Temple
of Diana, at Ephesus. ‘This was 425 feet in
length and 220 feet in breadth, 4th, the
Walls and Hanging Gardens of Babylon.
These walls are stated, by Herodotus, to have
been $7 feet thick, 250 feet high, and 60
miles in length ; and the statement is deem-
ed credible by modern autiquarians. 5th,
the Colossus of Rhodes. This was a brazen
statue of Apollo, 106 feet in height, stand-
ing at the mouth of the harbor of Rhodes.
Gth, the statue of Jupiter Olympus, at
Athens, which was mado of ivory and gold,
and was wonderful for its beauty rather than
for its size. 7th, the Pharos at Alexandria,
in Egypt. A fire of wood was kept burning

Fools, who, with eves wide opened, nothing see,
Nor, cars agape, unto Fate's footstep hearken!.
Over their bodies must its progress be,
So thei: deluding words none more may darken!
Two vears have flown, since that time was, away,—
Ah, but two seconds in the Pegple's being !—
Five hundred thonsand stand iPasms today —---

For the subjection of the South agreeing,

7 dam:

The wheel of Tinie rolls’ swiftly omits track, ”
And to its perfect course no barrier rises.

Needs must the avalanche its victims have;
Out of its path and save you, now or never!

Joun Browy aroused it, on it comes, one grave
May bury Slavery and yourself forever!
Monroe, (Mich.) Dec. 1, 1831. Epw. Dorsca.

TUMORS OF THE CAMPAIGN.

The highly intelligent and veracious cor-
respondent of the N. Y. Mercury sends,
from the seat of War, the following graphic
account of some matters which have escaped
the notice of less vigilant camp followers who
write for the press.

Editors T. ‘T. :—We have met the enemy
at last my boy; but I don’t see that he is
ours. We went after him with flying ban-
ners, and I noticed when we came back they
were flying still !—Honor to the brave who
fell on that bloody field! and may we kill
enough secessionists to give each of them a
monument of skulls !

I was present at the great battle, my boy,
and appointed myself a special guard of one
of the baggage wagons in the extreme rear.
The driver saw me coming, and says he:

“You can’t cut behind this here vehicle,
my fine little boy.”

I looked at him for a moment, after the
manner of the late great actor, Mr. Kirby,
and says I:

“Soldier, hast thou a wife?”

Says he: “I reckon.”

“ And sixteen small children 2?”

Says he, ‘There was only fifteen when
last heard from.”

“Soldier,” says I, “were you to die before
tomorrow, what would be your last request ?”’
Here I shed two tears.

“Tt would be,” says he, ‘that some kind
friend would take the job of walloping my
off'spring for a year on contract, and finding
my beloved wife in subjects to jaw about.”

“Soldier,” says I, “I’m your friend and
brother. Tet me occupy a ecat by your
side.”

And he didn’t let. me do it.

While I was skirmishing around in the
rear of another wagon I met Raymond of the
Times, and found he was hunting for the
“Great Quadrilateral.” He said he would
go into the thickest of the fight and write an
account of it on the knapsack of a dead rebel,
if it wasn’t fér the fact, that if he should
happen to get mortally wounded, the Herald:
would swear that he was shot while runnj
after his hat. Just at this minute, some-
thing bust, and I found myself going up at
the rate of two steeples and a short-tower a
second. I meta Fire Zouave on the way
down, and says he:

“Towhead, if you see any of our boys up
where you are going to, just tell them to
hurry down ; for there’s goin’ to be a muss,
and Nine’s fellers ’ill take that ere four gun
hydrant from the seceshers in less tinie than
you can reel two yards of hose.”

As I was very tired, I did not go all the
way up; but turned back at the first cloud,
and returned hastily to the scene of strife ; I
happened to light on a very fat secesher, who
was doing a little running for exercise.
Down he went with me on top of him. He
was dreadfully scared ; but says be to me ;
“T’ve seen you before, by the Gods!? I
winked at him, and commenced to sharpen
my sword on a stone.

“Toll me,” said he,
mother ?”

“T had,” says I.

: “And a masculine father?”

“had you a female

“He wore breeches.”

SETAE

- Bowery ‘Theatre myself; and with that I

+

“Thon you aro my long-lost grandfather 1”
exclaimed tho seeesher, endeavoring to om-

bravo mo.
“[t won't do says T; T’ve beon to the

took off his neck the and wiped my nese with
it. This action was so repugnant to the feel-
ings of the Southern gentleman, that he imme-
diately died on my hands; aud there I lett
him.

With the remembrance of the many heroic
souls who have sacriliced themselves for their
country that day, [have not the heart, my
boy, to continue the subject. Twas routed
at about five o'clock in the afternoon, and
fell back on Washington, where Lam now
receiving my rations. T don’t tako tho oath
with any spirit since then; and a skeleton
with nothing on but a havelock is all that is
lett of your correspondent. ‘The Mackerel
Brigade, of which Uhave the honor of being a
membor, was about the worst demoralized of
all the brigades, they covered themselves with
glory and perspiration at the skrimmage at
Bull Run. In the first place they never had
much morals, and when it came to be de-
moralized it hadn't any ; so that ever since
that disaster the peasantry in the neighbor-
hood of the camp have been in constant
mourning for departed pullets ; and one
venerable rustie complains that the Mackerel
pickets milk all his cows every night, and
come to borrow his churn in the morning.
When ono of the colonels heard the venerable
rustic make this accusation he said to him:

*Woukl you like to be revenged on those
who milk your animiles?” The venerable
rustic took a chew of tobacco, and said he:
“1 wonldn’t like anything better.” The
Col. looked at him sadly for a moment, and
then remarked: ‘Aged stranger, you. are
already revenged. ‘The men who milked
your animiles are from New York, where
they had been accustonted to drink milk
composed principally of Croton water. Upon
drinking the pure article furnished hy your
gentle beastesses, they were all taken vio-
lently sick, and are now lying at the point of
iNness, expecting every moment to be their
first.” The venerable rustic was so affected
by this intelligence that he immediately went
home in tears.

By invitation of a well-known powder
monkcy, I visited the Navy Yard yesterday,
and witnessed the trial of some newly-in-
vented rifled cannon. The trial was of short
duration, and the jury brought a verdict of
“innocent of any intent to kill.”

The first gun tried was similar to those
used in the Revolution, except that it had a

large touch-hole, and the carriage was painted |

green instead of blue. This novel and in-

rs ment hy ay, We
ASE 7} o

“BOSTON: THURSDAY, FEB. 20,1862.

“$2 Pir Axsem.—We have tried the plan
of putting the paper at SL per annum, for
four months, and have come to the conelu-
sion that it will not pay. On and after the
first of March, the price of the paper will be
$2 per annum, or four cents cach.

- «oe?

GREAT EXPECTATIONS.

This is an expectant era: the North ex-
pects to vanquish the rebels, maintain. the
Constitution, and enforce the Jaws, and to re-
store the Union th statu quo ante bellum.
The South expects foreign powers to interfere
and aid it in maintaining ifs assumed inde-
pendence, and to countenance its attempt to
make slavery perpetual on this continent.

The Eureptan powers expect to avail
themselves of our internecine strife, to regain
a permanent foothold in the Western Hemis-
phere ; and by fomenting discord, to acquire
a control over its political destinies.

Philanthropy expects, that, in the conflict
engendered by these contending views, the
question of American slavery will receive a
solution favorable to the interests of humani-
ty. and conformable to the requirements of
justice.

These all have a basis of probability where-
lon to build their anticipations—a substratum
of reality to serve as a basis for their hopes.
We, Afrie-Americans, too, have our expec-
facts and relying

tations, which, ignoring

mainly on fancy, assume magnificent propor-
tions ; and from the changes which they im-
ply, both in the opinions as well as the con-
duct of our fellow-countrymen, ‘are entitled to
the appellation, great. If they served to
jenable us to bear evils which in their very
nature were irremediable, or reconciled us by

their hallucination to a lot which it were im-

genious weapon was pointed at a target about
sixty yards distant. It didn’t hit it, and as
nobody saw any ball, there was much per-
plexity expressed. A midshipman did say
that he thought the ball must have run out
of the touch-hole when they loaded up—for
which he was instantly expelled from the
service. After a long search, without finding
the ball, there was some thought of summoning
the Naval Retiring Board to decide on the
matter, when some body happened to look into
the mouth of the cannon and discovered that
the ball had not went out at all. ‘The in-
ventor said that this would happen s>me-
times, especially if you didn’t put a brick
over the touch-hole when you fired the gun.
The Government was so well pleased with
this explanatiom that it ordered forty of the
guns On the spot, at two hundred” theussse
dollars apiece. The guns to be furnished as
conn as the war is vere...
A violently rabid Democratic sheet,
which is extremely partisan in all its views
and utterings, and is so completely mono-
maniacal on the subject of Anti-Slavery as to
suspect a chain-breaker is hidden in every
woodpile, and to imagine that the most in-
offensive words in the English language
which emanate from a freedom-lover, in re-
ality when truly interpreted, mean mischicf
and murder, treason and tribulation, destrue-
tion, and everything that is infamous,
heinous, and horrible, feels bound to come
down with all vengeance upon the Proclama-
tion which was issued by Gen. Phelps. It
is so determiried to find fault, so completely
beside itself, so totally demented, so de-
prived of judgment and reason, on the occa-
sion, as actually to select from the document,
as ‘‘a fair specimen of its vile whele,’’ the
following paragraph, the sentiments of which
will commend themselves to the good sense,
and best feelings of that large portion of the
Unionists, which has heen contemptuously
sneered at as ‘the mudsills” of socioty.

“Tt is the conviction of my command, as
a part of the national forces of the United
States, that labor, manual labor, is inherent-
ly noble ; that it cannot be systematically de-
graded by any nation without ruining its
peace, happiness and power ; that free labor
is the granite basis on which free institutions
must rest ; that it is the right, the capital,
the inheritance, the hope of the poor man
every-where ; that it is especially the right of
five millions of our fellow countrymen in the
slaves States, ag well ag the four millions of
Africans there, and all our efforts, therefore,
however small or great, whether directed
against the interference of governinents from
abroad, or against rebellious combinations at
home, shall be for free labor. Our motto
and oar standard shall be, here and every-
where, and on alloccasionsg—F rer Lanon axp
Wonkrxomen’s Riauts. [tis on this basis,
and this basis alone, that our munificent gov-
ernment—the asylum of the nations—can be
perpetuated and preserved.”

poe

If this be, as the opponeht declares it, ‘'n
fair specimen” of the Proclamation, where,
@hrouvhout freedom-loving New England, is
the being to be found, possessing the heart,
and feelings; and noble aspirations of man-

hood, who will not say amen to it ? §

An item ia going the rounds, to the
purport, that it is a very curious coinci-
dence that Washington and Princo Albert
died on the same day of the month and
about the same hour of the evening, What
‘js there curious «about it? Doubtless
thousands died not only on tho same day of
the month, and about the same hour of tho
day, but in the same year, month, day, hour,
minute and second that the Father of his
Country, and also that the husband of the
Queen did. If, in the cases of Washington
and Albert, it could be satisfactorily proved
that no other individuals died on the samo
day of the month, and at the same hour, we
might well point to the occurrénees ag casos
Of curious coincidenee, §

rarer

possible for us to alter, then we should es-
jteem them a blessing, and thank God for
ithe delusion. But as their effect is not sus-
taining, but depressing —as they do not he
get resignation, but engender indolence and
apathetic indifference to the use of legitimate
and proper means of rescue ; we condemn
their indulgence and reprobate their encour-
agement hy those who sincerely desire our
future elevation.

The action of the Wheeling Convention,
in adopting a Constitution for the new and
loyal State of Western Virginia, is significant
of the character of public sentiment toward

destroyed.
aaTacat ll Md - Vie aah 1 e

son of color shall come into this State for per-
manent residence after this Constitution gocs
into opcration.”” This is the normal action
of a controlling element in American Socic-
ty, which cannot be left out of sight in cast-
ing the horoscope of our future existence as a
portion of that society.

Toa people, politically bankrupt and so-
cially suspended, there is nothing left but to
fall back on hope and indulge in expectancy ;
unless facilities are offered whereby they may
retrieve their fortunes and regain their proper
standing. But it is not unfrequently the
case, that, absorbed in visions of future im-
portance and power, or in the recollections
of past greatness, they overlook or disregard
the causes which haye contributed to. their
depression, and the means whereby their con-
dition is to be reversed.

This, in cases where the descent. has been
from a high degree of greatness and renown,
and where the contrast between past. glory
and present Inumiliation agonizes the soul and
unnerves the energies, may be, to a certain
extent, excusable. But to those with whom
the past is a continuous record of degrada-
tion, and the present a perpetual conscious.
ness of undeserved injurics and unsatisfied
desires, there remains no loop whercon to
hang expectancy of a reverse of fortune ; the
degraded beings must either acecpt their con-
dition as a finality, or else create, progress
ively, out of the chaos of their past a fu-
ture correspondent to the abilities within
them.

This is the condition of the colored people
of these United States, whose great expecta-
tions of succeeding some time or other, as co-
heirs, to the heritage of freedom and political
equality bequeathed to every American citi-
zen, isthe bane of their social existence.

The intermixture of the two races, in this
country, characterized by unmitigated cruelty,
and tke basest fraud, on the one side, and hy
the most revolting humiliation and extreme
suffering, on the other, was abhorrent. te
every sentiment of justice in its inception,
and remains stamped with the marks of its
unnatural origin through every stage of its
continuance.

Dickens, in the tale, whose title we have
borrowed for a caption, represents his chicf
personage, Pip, as having no knowledge of
his parents ; his ‘first fancies regarding what
thoy were liko, being unreasonably derived
from their tomb stones :”’ to which authority,
and the testimony of his termagant sister,
Mra. Joe Gargery, who “brought him up by
hand,” he was indebted for a knowledge of
his family name. To becomes possessed of
(reat Expectations, however, from an indefi-
nite source ; which have the effect of making
him ashamed of his kin, of unfitting him for
any practical efforts, and result in his bitter
disappointinent and wretchedness.

Asa people, our circumstances resemblo

those of Pip closely. Society, which is al,

wayson the “rampage”? about us, has brought
us up hy hand in the roughest possible man-
ner; and whatever pluck or energy such
treatment might have developed in us, is eom-
pletely neutralized by our great expectations
of being admitted, on equal terms, to white
mens’ society : producing a feeling of repug-
nance to our despised color and a miserable
state of existence in which the deferred real-
ization of our hope is embittered by self-
dissatisfaction, and the contemptuous treat-
ment of those whose countenance we crave.
If there be any expectancy in which we
may lawfully indulge—any hope that we ean
properly cherish, it is that of distinguishing
ourselves as a people apart from the whites,
and stimulating thereby the dormant energies
of the mass of our people to ‘similar exer:
tions,

Let no abstract theories blind us to the
fact that there are race characteristics which
separate the black man from the white ; and
that those characteristics operate in society
where there is a large admixture of the col-
ored race, to produce social distinctions dis-
advantageous to our progress. Tt were more
vlorious for us to take the abilities we pos-
sess and use them for the separate elevation
of our race anywhere, than to wrap ourselves
up in our great expectations, and lose the
golden moments for exertion in’ waiting for
something providential to turn up and bless

us in eur appointed way. L.

4 weep

—— The past week has been fraught with
elorious news of victory from the South and
the West, the particulars of which may be
found under our War Items’ heading. Com-
mander Guldsborough says, “We have yet’
more work of the kind to accomplish, and
will soon deliver another blow to erush
the hydra of rebellion.

The conflict seems at last to have been en-
tered on, in right good earnest; and we trust it
will he rapidly and energetically followed up,
and blow after blow be vigorously dealt out,
until rebeldom is vanquished, slavery abol-
ished, secessionism extinguished, and the
concocters and leaders of this unholy, fratri-
cidal contest are so summarily and effectually
disposed of, that they shall no longer soil the
earth which they have disgraced, and their
names ever become a by-word and a reproach
in the mouths of the people. We some time
since remarked that we looked to the Navy
as the right arm of our reliance for offensive
purposes ; the results, for the most part, thus
far, show this to be true; as at Hatteras and
Port Royal, so at Roanoke Island and Fort
Henry, the decisive blow was struck by the
naval foree; at the last named places, the
noble examples set were well followed by the
land forces ; what the result may be as re-
gards that at Port Royal, we are still, as we
have been for many weeks, waiting to learn.

The long desired activity appears at length
to be stimulating the various detachments of
troons, and our numerous armed yessels al-

most everywhere, save in the region of the

mA Ve aeees

The rebels, protected by their mud _ forts,
and other temporary means of shelter, virtu-
ally command the river, and obstruct, and
as often as they choose, which they most gen-
rally do, almost completely prevent its navi-
gation. Why this is tolerated, how much
longer it is to be, are difficult. questions to
answer. Both naval and military men, whose
experience and judgment are worthy of
weight, declare that, with comparative easo,
the enemy’s guns might be silenced, their
posts on the Virginia side of the stream de-
stroyed, and water communication with the
Capitel again restored.

We trust that the spirit, which now ani-
mates the extremities, will flow back to the
central organ with such vital force as to re-
new a healthy circulation, revivify the body
politic, and expel all morbid humors from
the entire system.

ng ee

—— All the principal Southern cities are
in a high state of excitement ; Norfolk, Rich.
mond, Charleston, Savannah, New Orleans,
Mobile, Pensacola, ete., evidently are expe-
viencing a realizing sense of their peculiarly
delicate situation, and apprehensive that the
day of reckoning, for each and all, is fast
drawing near, In, many of these cities,
probably all, they are availing of the aid which
we foolishly refused. All the young colored
men, slaves and free, have been enrolled, and
are being drilled as soldiers along the entire

coast. In New Orleans, 2,500 black troops
are regularly mustered, ‘To prompt. tho

slaves willingly to enlist for the war, freedom
papers are presented them at the time of
their enlistment.

ee ee

-—— The Traveller, speaking of tho rejoie-
ings on account of the Union vietory in North
Carolina says: “Especial demonstrations
were made in Rhade Island, the aatcre State
of Gen. Burnside, the commander of the
Expedition.” ‘This is a slight mistake. Gen.
Burnside is a Westerner by birth; a Rhode
Igander by adoption ; his “better half” is,
however, a daughter of Rhody, As by ju-
diciously conducting a campaign, and plac-
ing bis trust in terreno Proyidenee, he se-
cured a valuable prize for himself, we
believe by the exerciso of corresponding
judgment. and skill in managing his present
campaign, relying upon the smiles of Divine
Providence, he will win an important vietory
for his country. ‘

Awe

——The death of Dr. Holden, the Afri-
van traveller, is confirmed by reeent intelli-
He
was prompled by a desire to make explora-

genee from the Cape of Good Hope.

tions in those regions of Afrien, where Kuro.
pean foo hud never trod; and having sue-
ceeded in reaching a point beyond Unt al-
tained by Anderson, he was attacked by
fever, which compelled him to turn back,
and after retracing his steps until completely
exhausted, he died. §

Gen. Lane recently left. Washington | descent on the married men without children.
for Kansas, with an understanding from See- | Whether this will lead to acknowledgements
retary Cameron, and under the impression | of paternity, which, under ordinary circum-
from the President that he was to have an-| stances, would not be admitted, remains to
independent command, with which to move| be seen. That’ the number of those who
South through the Indian Country, Arkan-| could set up such a plea, is legion, admits
sas, &e. At Chicago, and elsewhere he ad-| not of a question:

dressed the public, and stated among other} Willing to aid Lipscomb in his endeavors
things that he intended the enemy should | to increase the rebel’ army, we would sug-
support his troops, and consequently that he} gest, in case he should be the suecessful can-
should not respect the property, (slave or} didate, that in maturing his bill, he so word
otherwise) of the rebels. ‘These speechments | it, as not to defeat his object, and therefore,
ovidently alarmed the friends of ‘‘the pecu-| instead of using the phraseology ‘married
liar institution,” who bestirred themselves to} men without children,” amend by adding
thwart Lano and head him off. ‘This it would | the words—by their lawful wives. Other-
seem they have effected ; for prior to, or about | wise, his hopes of obtaining many recruits,
the time of his arrival at Fort Leavenworth, | will most assuredly be blasted.

Gen. Hunter was telegraphed from Washing-

ton (it is now said by Gen, McClellan, who

is opposed to Lane) and he immediately is-

sued an Order, announcing that ie should

take command, in person, of the erroneously

styled Lane expedition, Now whatever may

be said in disparagement of Lane, no one

cin question his shrewdness or possession of
plain common sense ; and therefore it cannot

be for a moment doubted, that at his inter-

view with the President, he fully, fairly, and

explicitly understood that he was to have the

command of the projected expedition. Ag

the ease now presents itself we are forced

to the conclusion that there is not that har-
mony and unity of action between the Presi-
dent and other high officials, which should

exist, and that the former does not possess
the firmmess and decision of character which
have been awarded him, and that in conse-
quence, under the influence of some persons,
more particularly of certain ones having
strong Pro-Slavery proclivities, he is but as
clay in the hands of the potter.

The friendly Indians have made an earnest
appeal in behalf of Gen. Lane. ‘The Kansas
House of Representatives, week before last,
passed a resolution requesting the President
to appoint Lane a Major General, and give
him command of the projected expedition.
Will the appeal and Legislative action rein-
state him, or will the counter-pressure con-
tinue successfnl? We fear the latter, By
the latest intelligence from Leavenworth, no
anicable official arrangement has been made,
although we believe the personal relations of
the competitors for the post of honor are of x
friendly character. The present military po-
sition and aspect of affairs are very unfortu-
nate, and had it not been for their inoppor-
tune oceurrenee, we believed that, ere this,
Lane would have made himself’ scen, and
heard, and felt within the enemy’s lines and
strongholds. From present appearances we
apprehend, but trust itis from a baseless
fear, that the. season for vigorous action will
have passed way ere a decisive demonstra-
tion is made, 1d an effectual blow falls upon
the rebel ho: §

. A new question is quite unexpected-
ly sprung upon us; viz. What to do with
our prisoners? Gen. Burnside has so many
requiring his attention as to impede tempora-
rily his onward progress ; his troops being
necessarily detained at Roanoke Island to
guard them. So that thus far, all subse-
quent operations, to the capture of Roancke
Island, have been conducted by the raval
portion of the expedition, such as the occu-
pying of Elizabeth City, Edenton, and other
towns.

Gen. Curtis, a portion of whose command
pursued Price in his flight from Springfield,
Mo., complains that he has more prisoners
than he can well attend to.

Gen. Grant, at Mort Donelson, has a bur-
densome number to take care of ; a few thou-
sand of which might well be spared, if there-
by possession could be obtained of the con-

summate reLel lloyd.

Among the many good effects resulting
from this vast accumulation of secessionists
in our power, will undoubtedly be an ame-
lioration of the condition and treatment of the
Unionists incarcerated by the enemy ; and
such are the number and military character
of those who have now fallen into our hands,
we need fear nothing further from threats like
those which have been uttered from time to
time against Col. Corcoran and his com-

patriots.

Tux Tox. Coartes Sumver.—The Island
of Jersey Independent republished, entire,
the admirable speech of Mr. Sumner at the
Woreester Republican Convention, held on
the first of October last, and accompanied
it with a highly complimentary notice which
we have transferred to our columns. §

WAR ITEMS.

Gen. Hunter is actively engaged at Fort
Jeavenworth, Kansas, in making prepara-
tion for the Southern expedition from that
post, which will be one of the most powerful
yet organized ; seven regiments of cavalry,
four of infantry,fand three full batteries of artil-
lery, with Parrott and Weard guns, are now
on the way from the Hast.

Among those fatally scalded on board of
the Mssex, at the bombardment of Fort
Henry, Tenn., was one whole-souled patriot,
who, as the boas dilted down “vAquh. was

SUrcallts
toll by the surgeon he could” ‘not live.
Upon which he anxiously inquired, “How
goes the fight?” «They have surrendered,”
was the reply. ‘Glory to God!” said he,
ina feeble voice, and at the same time trying
to wave hishand. ‘Glory to God !”* he re-
peated; “I can die now and don’t. care !”
In a few moments he was dead.

A correspondent of the Philadelphia Press,
on the authority of an escaped rebel from
Fort Pulaski, states that the fort is well de-
fended and provisioned for two months, but
that all supplies are cut off. It contains
furty-six guns, five mortars, and one rifled
cannon. It is estimated there are 20,000
rebels around Savannah; 8,000 of them
having lately arrived from Manassas.

Gen. Lander is again in the occupancy of
Romney. and is making preparations, tor rid-
ding of the enemy, the region round about,
so soon as the condition of the roads will
warrant his movements for the purpose.

The Secretary of New Mexico reached
Washington on the 14th inst., with oflicial
lespatches. Great excitement prevails through-
out the Territory, The rebel General dibley
was advaneing from the South towards Santa
Ire. Col. Canby was concentrating all the
available Union foree to meet him. The
Governor, Superintendent of Indian Afthirs,
and other officials, had repaired to the Union
sump. By later advices Sibley, with 3,000
‘Texans advanced to Santa Barbara, and then
retired to Kl Pass, Canby being in pursuit
with 1,300 regulars, and 2,000 volunteers.

OMteial intelligence has been reecived of
the reeent vietory in| North Carolina, both
from Commander Goldsborough and Gen.
Burnside, ‘The batéle lasted two days. The
enemy’s “means of defence on Roanoke
Island were truly formidable, and were used
with a determination worthy of a hetter cause.
They consisted of two elaborately constructed
works, mounting twenty-two heavy guns,
three being 100-pounders, rifled, and other
batteries mounting twenty guns, a large pro-
portion of these, also, being of heavy ealibre
and some rifled ; eight steamers of two guns
each, and each with a rifled gun with a di-
ameter ofa 32-pounder. We encountered a
prolonged obstruction of sunken vessels and
piles to thwart our advance. A body of men
numbering scarcely less than 5000 are now
our prisoners.” Commander Goldsborough
says, “no attack could have been more com-
pletely executed, and it was carried out pre-
eiscly in aceordance with the arrangements
made before the expedition lett Hatteras.”
“The rebels were pursued,”? writes the
Philadelphia Tnquirer’s correspondent, *sev-
eral hours, and two complete regiments on
their way to reinforee Roanoke Island, were
captured, Juvery road was lined with guns,
knapsacks, clothing, wounded, dead, and dy-
ing. Hx-Governor Wiso escaped from Nag’s
Tlead, but his son was shot through both legs

Cosrorni xt.—The Nashville Correspon-

dent of a} “Niptiis paper seems to think a
beet - Letnte ne thet ouffered by the

rebels under Crittenden and Zollicoffer would
be of no great gecount. So far from being
discouraged in the heart, let us be prepared,
he says, if necessary, to encounter more de-
feats, during our war for independence, with-
out allowing even a damper to be cast on
our spirits, As regards the ‘‘move,” he is
ina fair way to be gratified to his heart’s
content, or rather discontent. ,

“We cannot expect to achieve suceesses
every time.” Wisely careful, and judiciously
considerate, and therefore an expectation was
not entertained, which, it is now evident,
would have been doomed to disappointment.
Lhe writer congratulates his rebel associates
at the probability of their not being uniform:
ly sucessful because were they to be, they
might well have scrious apprehensions of the
ultimately deleterious effect thereof. A more
than Daniel; a Philosopher, of the highest
stamp. Still, probably under an_ apprehen.
sion that his sage sentiments might have such
a controlling influence over the rebel forces
as to induce them to yicld too readily, and
throw away too many victories, he concludes
with the following declaration which wonder-
fully harmonizes with his previous remarks :

“Our people and our rulers now seo the
necessity of increased activity and wakeful-
ness, and, indeed, of putting forth the full
energies of our giant young Confederacy in
the development of its resources for war and
the better use of its powers of defence.”

The Richmond Dispatch is of a different
temperament from the Nashvillian, philoso-
pher. It says, “the news fell upon the ears
of our citizons with fearful significance.”
Tt however has its cup of consolation near at
hand, from which it imbibes, with the follow
ing effect, in the way of an announcement :

“Lt is gratifying, in the midst of this af
fliction, to herald forth the géorious news
that England has recognized the South,
This may he relied on as correet—the au-
thority is undisputed, and the N.Y. Uerald
[gracious goodness] makes a free contession
oft t.”’

The same paper elsewhere says, “The
Roanoke and ort Henry victories have only
the universal determination in
the South—especially among the people in
the rural distriets—to fight to the bitter end.”

indurated

wees
——- There are several competitors for the
seat in the rebel Congress, made vacant by
the death of John Tyler. Wo have else-
where named tho traitor Breckinridge, and and the lungs. He died tho following day.
stated his political views. Another aspirant! — Acting Brigadier General Hill, Colonels
is Martin Meredith Lipscomb, who declares; Shaw, Jordan and Green were captured, with
nv largo number of subordinates, Che rebels
fired Hlizabeth City on retreating. ‘The
Federal gunboat’ Commodore Perry ran
dowa the rebel flag ship Sea Bird, having on
board Commodore Lynch, cutting her apart.
Qur men boarded her pellmell. “During the
encounter a portion of her officers and crew
jumped overboard; others had their brains
knocked out with handspikes, which were

himself in favor of an offensive war, carried
to the very hearth-stones of their cnomies,
asking nor giving quarters to none, dealing
blows thiek and fast, until the Yankee Na-
lion shall ery, “Hold, enough !”

Ile is in favor of the passage of a bill com-
pelling all mon unmarried, to enlist for the
war; hence wo look for an increase of hyme- freely used, The rebel fleet of eight steam-
neal festivities. In ease there should be any] ers was destroyed and one taken asa prize.”
deficiency from this sourco, he would make al The rebels were driven from their intrench-

ments by the Tn

‘Our troops were commanded by Gen. Curtis,

‘the pursuit from Springfield, and after a brief

Massachusetts 21st,
and S1st New York rogiments were algo in
six forts, forty guns, over 2,000 prisoners,

I[c also estimates our loss at about thirty-five
killed, and about 200 wounded, ten of them
srobably mortally.

The Norfolk and Richmond papers per-
sist in declaring our loss to be not lose than
1,000 killed.

From Port Royal, comes the intelligence
that our troops are within ‘eight miles of Sa-
vannah, and that preparations are making for

Gen. Price evacuated Springfield, Mo., on

troops took possession of it on the 13th inst.,
finding a large amount of stores and camp
equipage there. Price had with him 12,000
effective troops, and fifty pieces of artillery.

who reports that the enemy was overtaken in

resistance, the rebels fled, leaving the road
strewn with their wagons and hageage. He
has taken more prisoners than he knows what
to do with.

Gen. Grant, with a Union force of 50,000
men, commenced an attack on Fort Donel-
son, (Cumberland River,) on the 13th inst.
The battle continued throughout the day, and
was to be renewed the following morning.

. fe)

Our loss was about 25 killed, and 250
wounded. ‘The fort is surrounded by high,
steep hills, heavily wooded, and protected by
two redoubts, trenches, and rifle pits. The
outer works and bastions are located on
ridges 150 to 250 feet high, covered with
timber and underbrush. The contest was
renewed on T'riday, and continued on
Saturday. The struggle was desperate.
The Illinois 18th suffered severely, and
the Iowa 7th sustained considerable loss.
The loss was heavy on both sides. The up-
per fort was taken at four o’clock P. M., on
Saturday, and the Union Flag is now waving
over it. This position commands Fort Don-
elson, which, as General Grant predicted,
was captured on the following day, and with
it Generals Johnston and Buckner, and 15,-
000 troops. The arch-traitor Floyd, and the
notorious Pillow, escaped on Saturday night
with 5,000 troops; or, rather, it is said ran
away without-advising General Buckner of
their intentions. Our loss is estimated at 400
killed and S00 wounded ; three Lieutenant-
Colonels were killed, and it is conjectured
that.at least one-fourth of all the other officers
are among the killed and wounded. The
rebel loss, from their comparatively sheltered
position, was much less. Large quantities
of ammunition, 65 cannon, and 20,000 stand
of arms, were taken. The rebel works were
four miles in length. The night previous to
the surrender, Major Post of the Illinois 8th,
and 200 privates, were taken, and probably
have been conveyed to Nashville.

From Cumberland (Va.,) the 14th inst.,
comes word that Gen. Lander made a forced
march on Thursday, surprised and broke up
arebel camp at Blooming Gap, killing 13,
and capturing 17 officers and 45 privates,
with a loss of but two men and six horses.
By this success, the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad is reépened to Hancock. This
march of forty-three miles in one day, and a
victory at the close, as the World well says,
would have done eredit to Garibaldi. Scere-
tary Stanton thus compliments Gen. Lander :

the worst weather and’ Wor
spirited officer, at the head of a small force
of brave men, unwilling to waste life in camp,
when the enemies of their conntry are within
reach.”

On the Southern coast, several valuable
rebel vessels have been taken, laden with
cotton and salt.

Tke enemy evacuated Bowling Green,
Ky., on the 15th, and Gen. Mitchell’s Divi-
sion of Unionists oceupy it.

A report from Chicago, of the 18th inst.,
states that Price and his army have been cap-
tured ; and one from Baltimore, of the same

rendered.

CONTRABANDS,

Ten deserting contrabands arrived at Fort
Hamilton on the 9th inst., having been found
by a scouting party of the Massachusetts
10th. One of them, completely armed with
carbine, pistol, Xe., belonged to the black
Virginia Cavalry, who were engaged in the
skirmish at New Market Bridge on the 22d
December last. They state there is a_ great
scarcity of provisions among the rebels,

The Port Royal Correspondent of the
Philadelphia Inquirer writes, ‘the contra-
bands are enjoying themselves hugely ; most
of them making money by selling sweet  po-
tatoes, oysters, fish, Ke., to the soldiers.”’

Lamson, the Marshal of the District of
Columbia, has at length, after his conduct
has been repeatedly brought to the attention
of Congress and reprehended, yielded to the
pressure upon him, and tardily given notice
to the Keeper and Guards of the Washington
Jail, under date of the Oh inst., ‘‘to re-
lease from custody all persons elaimed to be
held to service or labor, and not charged
with any erime or imisdemeanor, ke., &e.,”
Why the 9th was selected we know not it
being Sunday; perhaps because, as the old
maxim has it, better thé day, better the deed ;
perhaps, to show his disregard of the day ;
it is presuming too much to conjecture that
this eontenmer of civil laws, and) spurner of
religious precepts, would be sufticiently  fa-
miliar with the Seriptures, to reply, if inter:
rogated, ‘Hs it not lawful to do good on the
Sabbath day 7”

the 12th, leaving 600 sick behind; snd our|says, Capt. Fu

“You have shown_how much may be done in
roads, DY a

date, is to the effect that Savannah has sur- >

wkins Zouaves and the|the- Government of what may become an in-
Tho 25th and 27th} supportdble burden, and enable the blacks to
Massachusetts, the 10th Connecticut, and Oth | support and govern themselves, be propores
to establish a suitable system of culture and
fight. Gen. Burnside reports the capture of | instruction combined with provision for their
physical wants.
and upwards of 8,000 small arms. . plan, he desires the services of
]

To aid in carrying out his
competent
nstructors to teach both young and old the

rudiments of civilization and Christisnity—
their amenability to the laws of both God and
man—thcir relation to cach other as social
beings, and all that is necessary to render
them competent to sustain themselves in ae-
cial and business pursuits. ] e
un appeal in their bebalf to the philanthropic
and benevolent people of the North, for cloth-

an attack on Charleston. ing, &e.

He also makes

The Transeript’s Beaufort Correspondent

ler hag under his charge at
that place, 600 negroes, big and little ; many
of them are employed at from four to twelve
dollars per month as carpenters, blacksmiths,
engincers, firemen, laborers, &c. They aré
to he paid montbly in cash or an equivalent.
Some 70 women are engaged in making bag-
ging into cotton bags. The writer says the
wet, damp, rainy season seems now to have
set in and here are 600 poor souls suffering
more or less for clothes, some of them net
having enough to cover their nakedness ; he
therefore presents an appeal in their behalf.
The steamship Baltic, at New York from
Port Royal, brought eight secession prisoners,
who have been lodged in Fort Lafayette.
‘They were taken in this wisc. A negro
came into camp and reported a dozen rebel
soldiers were on the main land opposite Port
Royal ferry. A Lieutenant and 18 men
were sent gut to reconnoitre, and finding the
party, after killing four, captured the re-
mainder of the entire squad. Had the ne
gro’s statement proved false and our men
been entrapped by the enemy, the Jopmal
of Commerce, Express, and papers of a simi-
lar stamp, would have loudly rung the usual
changes to proclaim the treachery practised ;
but the result proving as above stated, a pro-
found silence is maintained, as it would be
committing almost, or quite an unpardonable
sin to acknowledge honesty or gratitude in
one of the colored race.

MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS.

Perley, of the Journal, in referring to the
petitions to Congress soliciting both branches
to drop the negro question and attend to the
business of the country, says of the petition-
ers: “They forget that for years,—at least
since the admission of Missourii—the negro
has furnished the pivot upon which the greater
portion of the legislation of the country has
been moved; and now that he is rapidly
becoming emancipated, it is not fair to tnrn
him out in the cold without making provision
for his education, for making his industry
profitable to himself, and for his security.”
As was last week by us predicted would
be the case, the rebels refuse to permit the
commission, consisting ef Bishop Ames and
Hamilton Fish, to visit the Unionists im-
prisoned in rebeldom, and these gentlemen
are homeward bound.

Wikoff, the Washington correspondent of
the New York Herald, has, by direction of
the United States House of Representatives,
been ordered into close confinement ; for re-
fusing to divulge to a Committee bow he ob-
tained possession of the contents of the Presi-
dent’s Message prior to its official publicity.
It is now said that he obtained his informa-
tion through Watts the President’s gardener ;
the same favored individual who was by the

President, recommended for a lieutenancy,

and whose conduct, in regard to some other
matters, was animadverted upon by the Pot-
ter investigating committee in no very flatter.
ing terms, ;

Gordon, the slaver, whd, it may be re
membered, had his sentence respited for a
fortnight, will suffer at New York, tomorrow,
the extreme penalty of the law made and
provided, but seldom enforced in such cases,
unless the President, who warns him that
there is no further hope of mercy for him in
this world, be overpersuaded, through the
intercession of the criminal’s wife, to exercise
additional clemency.

Among the letters found after the sur
render of Fort Henry, was one from which tho
following is extracted. “I know not what
we are todo; Ihaven’ta red cent. . ..
I fear we will not live to see as prosperous a
time after this revolution as there was before
it. I often think of the language of our
Saviour: “Zh, Eli, Lama Sabachthani—
My God why hast thou forsaken me?’ I
verily believe aii this calamity has come upon
us for our wickedness. Religion ts down
like cotton—not worth much—and by the
actions of good brethren it might be bought
for a mere trifle, though if we were to judge
from its sparseness, like salt, it would be
worth S40 per sack. Oh, my God, what
will become of us. Go, if you please to the
chureh-yard and you will hear nothing but
secular affairs, and war, war. Dull times
everywhere, Money scarce ; pork high; salt
the same.”

The Tutchinsons are in the city, and in-
tend to give the public an opportunity’ to
judge of the objectionable character of the
songs for singing which they were expelled
from the lines of the army on the Potomac.
The anniversary of the secession of Louisi-
ana was celebrated at New Orleans on the
27th ult. There was a tuilitary turn out,.
and also a grand review on the occasion.
There were 10,000 troops, armed and
equipped ready for action; among them -one
thousand free colored soldiers.

Johu C. Breckenridge is a candidate to
represent Kentucky in the Confederate
Congress. He is “‘utterly opposed toa re-
construction of the old Government,” and
will never consent to a peace until the very

A new Dill, for the emancipation of the
slaves of the Distriet, was reported to the
Senate on ‘Thursday last.

Loyal blacks of North Carolina helped
man Vlag Officer Goldsborough’s Fleet and
assisted in working the guns which sunk the
rebel Lynch’s boats and compelled the enemy
on Roanoke Island to surrender. The main
question on shipping men was, Can you
fight ?—not what is your colar?

Gen. Sherman, under date of the 6th inst.,
has issued a Proclamation from Head Quar-
ters, Hilton Head. S. C., relative to the help-
less condition of the blacks inhabiting the
vast area occupied by his forees, stating the
need of immediate action in their behalf, by
a highly favored and philanthropie people.
He acknowledges that his address to the
South Carolinians in December last, concil-

jatory in character as it was, not only had no
beneticial effect, but was disregarded and fol-
lowed by an abandonment of hordes of un-
educated, igurant, and improvident: blacks,

in such a state of abject ignorance and men-
tal stolidity, as to preclude the possibility of

sel- government and selfmaintenanee at pres:
ent. Adequate provision for their pressing
necessities, he says, is foreed upon us by an
unnatural and wicked rebellion. To relieve

last of all the enemies of their liberty shall be
driven, not only from their hallowed soil, but
from every foot of territory, which, by its
geographical position, naturally belongs to the
South,

Moboeracy is dominant in Richmoud ; and
for the want of oil and gas the city is soon to
be doomed, after sunset, to darkness visible ;
when it is apprehended the doings there will
outrival those of Pandemoniwm itself.

The Boston Post belabors without merey
those who complained of the slowness of our
military movements, and in almost the same
breath coolly declares “the motto now is, on
all sides, onward.” “Never did hleeding
country more need victory, than the country
of Washington needs it now.”

_ The St. Louis Republican has been cast
into a state of beatitude by the recent victo-
ries, and the glorious prospect ahoad ; and in
the course of tho sentinentaliam therefrom
resulting, it says, ‘the sores now opencd
will bo closed. , . And after the heal-
Ing wings of time have soothed the inflamma:
tions of the present hour, Americans will et
bygones be bygones.”

—— A gooil conscience and a good tem-
per are intimately connected.

a,

A LEAP FROM PINLADELPHLA,
Praieapvecenta, Feb. 14, 1862.

Tothe Editors of The Pine and Palm: Color
phobia, or American prejudice, will prove an inter-
esting field for the labors of the future historian,
In those far off days of the future, when men shall
be a littl nearer Co perfection, and when what few
of the colored portion of the inhabitants who may
not be absorbed, aro invested with some rights to
be respected, the manof mind and the man of
heart will have full play for the excreise of intellect
and sentiment; the one over the difheulty of recon:
ciling tho inconsistencies; and the other over the
deplorable state of men during the “dark ages” of
the conntry’s history.

It is a problematical question with me whether
this prejudice is upon the increase or che decrease,
and [may suggest the question to the consideration
of our various literary sovicties as a subject for de-
bate. It may be that if emancipation be effected
this prejudice will be greatly strengthened; for, re-
membering that this act will not come about: by
any heartfelt conviction of the people in the sin of
slavery, but only as a military necessity, the feel-
ing of the people towards the blicks will most
probabiy remain as before; and, being jealons, as
the American appears to be,above all others, at the
equalizing of the two races, (alhongh the blacks
be frved,) itis probable that the bands of proscrip-
tion will be tightened upon them, as free men,
temporarily at least. Speaking of American
negro-hate, EF will relate an incident: which came
under my observation a few days ago, which
serves to illustrate its character, Walking along in
the evening through one of the crowded thoroazh-

farvs of this city of “Brotherly Love, brieks and |

beauty,” (so termed by your genial Yenos,) T came
across acrowd of perseus aromid an individual
ving upon the sidewalk inebriated and helpless.
Presently there approached a person who stopped
and asked “What's the matter?” “A man somewhat
the worse for liquor.” ‘Is he white or colored?”
“Colored.” “O, then, let him Tay there.” This
we see the demoniacal spirit of American caste
Had he been otherwise than “colored,” most
probably the interrogator would at least have

urged his being placed under the protection of an |
officer, and have gently lectured him upon the !

great sin of putting too much brandy in his water;

but he was a negro, and therefore placed entirely |

outside the pale of fecling.
Another illustration as to the spirit with which
this colorphobin should be resisted. A gentleman

resident, Who has more than a local reputation as a i

vocalist, called by invitation at the Continental
Hotel to sce Barney Williams, the actor. Upon
presenting himself at the bar, says the book-keeper
to him: “Take off your hat, sir!” The indignant
vocalist instead of giving the expected compliance,
detiantly replied, “How dare vou, sir, to insult a
gentleman.
Williams; The card was

that’s your duty.”

humbly taken by the demolished knight of the:
pen, while Mr. —— leisurely and triumphantly !

left the hotel, followed by the astonished eyes of
the lookers on.
On Thursday evening Mrs. Sarah M. Douglas:

long and favorably known as a teacher, and now |
engaged in the Institute for Colored Youth, de-:

livered the fifth lecture of the course before that
Institution, The subject chosen by her was
“Respiration.” The respiratury process as con-

nected with animal and vegetable life was minutely |

described, and the chemical changes pointed out.
The organs used in respiration were described by

There take my eard and give it to Mr. :

VEW YORK CITY NEWS,

Acapeay or Meastec.--The season closed on
Monday evening, the 10th inst, with Bellini’s three
act opera, “La Sonnambala,” in which Miss Kel-
love sustained, for the fist dime, the character of
Amina. She executed her réle with a nicety
whieh showed a careful study of the part, and in
the duetfo with Brignoli in the first act, she was
never heard to better advantage, ‘At the end of
the Opera, she was called before the curtain, and
received two superh baskets of flowers from the
twoeproscenium boxes. Brignoli, as Elvine, was
excellent, as usual; and Susini, as Count Radolpho,
appeared to splendid advantage.

We understand that Madame de Lassan has ne-
cepted Mr. Grau’s offer, and will make her debut
in about Mareh, in cither Faverita or Ernani. She
is now acquiring under Scole, to whose training
' Miss Kellogg owed so much of her dramatic sue:
lee Madame de Lassan belongs to a family of
musicians, and she derived the carly portion of her
musical education from sueh masters as Ponchard,
Carata, and Romagnes, the exquisite Ttalian bal-
lad composer. She isa pupil of what is called the
Rossinian Schoal, and her voice (a soprano quisto,)
is well adapted to its dowing melodies,

Tur Festiva. ror tHe Coxntaananns.—Last
Tuesday evening, Febrnary 1ith, a festival was
viven by a number of ladies and gentlemen of this.
Jeity, for the benefit of the contrabands that have
within the lines of the Federa

‘been gathered
| Army, since the breaking out of the war.
'Hemy Highland Garnet presided, and addres
; were delivered by Rev. Samson White of Brooklyn,
‘the Rev. Mr, Alston of this city, and Mr. Parker,a
contmband. Parker has been a slave in Virginia,
and was present at the battle of Bull) Run, where
“he served one of the rebel guns. He stated chat
there were thousands of colored men doing active
Hinilitary daty in the Sonth, and described various
stratarems used by them since the commencement
‘of the war, to ¢seape trom the rebel grip. Parker
seemed very much pleased with the entertainment,
and said that he had never seen such a large collec.
ition of colored people before in his lite. His ad-
1 dress was listened to with profound attention. At
ter the addresses, (he social part of the festivity
commenced, and continued until alate hour, The
entertainment, throughout, was a decided success.

Stuspay Scno0or CONCERT AND EX HIBITION.—
The Sabbath School attached 10 the Seventh Ave-
nue Presbyterian Chureh, gave an exhibition and
concert, on Tuesday evening, February tith, in the
chureh. The church—which is very) small—was
idensely packed, making it very uncomfortable.
‘The exercises were good; but we think if a lice

more time had been devoted to the children, they
, Would have acquitted themselves more creditably,
The smatier children far excelled the larger ones in
‘their performances, and we hope that when they

:come on the stage in future, they will have their
‘pieces perfect.

Mery’s Bexevo.est Society.—The
i Young Men’s Benevolent Socicty gave their annual
exhibition at the Zion Baptist Church, on Wednes-
‘ day evening, February 12th, toa very cood audience.
Miss V. Magnan, assisted by Miss Bryan, presided
at the piano, The young ladies and gentlemen
performed their parts very well, but we are inclined
to think that the society is like a rebel regiment—
“all officers and no privates; so burry up and get
more menthers before coming on the stave again.
1 Also, try and secure your speakers before you put
i their names on the bill,

Conorgp Scnoo.s.—The City Superintendent

| Youse

AWAY DOWN SOUTH TN DIXIE.

[Correspondence of the Advocate and Journal.)

Tits EMANCIPATED SLAVES at Port RoyaL.—
Hilton Head, Dee. 25, 1861,—~Christomseve was cel.
ebrated by the colored people at Gen. Drayton's
plantation. About lt L-2 o'clock w bell was rung,
and precisely atl2 ae pine fire was kindled tn front
of the cabin where the meetings was to be held,
Chey called the festival serenade to Jesus, One
of the leaders, of which there were three, was dress-
ed ia red coat with brass buttons, wearing white
loves. ‘The females were turbans made of cotton
handkerchiefs. Allages were represented, from: the
chitd of one year to the old man of ninety.

The lest exercise consisted in singing hiyinns and
spiritual sums, among which were those besinning
“Salvation!
free race” “Come laumble sinuer in whose breast;
“QO poor sinner! can’t stand de fire, can’t stand de
five, in dat great day ;” and a Christmas song con:
tainingga medley of everything that the fruitful
mind of the leader could: suygest, with the refrain,
Wel wait dll Jesus comes.” One of the leaders
lined the hymns, and though pone of them could
read, it was remarkable with what correctness they
gave the words. “Their Scripture quotations were
also correct and appropriate, not only having the
exact words, butouaining the chapter and verse
where they could be found.

After singing for some time, a prayer-meeting
was held. The prayers were fervent and powerrul,
and when an allusion would be made to the sol-
dievs Who had come from their distant diomes in
North country to “help and save de poor shave,
like desns, bring dem good ddings of great joy,”
avshout went up that sent its notes on the sail aight
airtoe the distant pickets in the surrounding pines,
When asked, as they could not read, bow they could
quote the Scriptures, Giey replied: “We have ears

ssa, and whende preacher give out his texts,
den we remembers and says dem over and over cll
we never forgets dem 3 dat’s de way, massa, we
poor people learns de word of God.”

The next exereise consisted in’ speaking and
singing at intervals, While one was speaking, an-
other would take a blazing pine toreh from the fire
and holdicay, so that all might: see the speaker.
At two o'clock, a recess was had, and all were invi-
ted to partake of coffee, which Iuxury they can
row purchase without any dificulty, as they have
plenty of money, obtained of the soldiers, vegeta
bles and poultry,

Atter this, came what was called the shouting
exercise. [t was introduced by the beating of time
by three or four with their feet. Soon che whole
company formed into a cirele, and commenced
jumping and singing to the time and tune of

“Say, brothers, will you meet ine, *

Say, brothers, will you mect me,

Say, brothers, will you meet me,

On Canaan's happy shore.”

This was continaed until the most fertile imag-
dination was exhausted, embracing an invitation
to sisters, soldiers, preachers, ¢ete., to meet thet
on Canaan's happy shore.

Never did these poor slaves celebrate a Cliristinas
eve under such circumstances betore. Whate
may be their future, ey are now, “to all intents,
purposes and constructions whatever,” free; that
they may “choose it rather” is beyond question
inost certain, As they have not forsaken their mits-
ters, but, on the contrary, their masters have forsa
ken them, all must agree that they are not only en-
titled to their freedom, but to the produce of their
labor ; and we opine that no maintenance of the
original sauus of ie government will ever be cifec-
tual in reducing them to slavery,

Jax. 4d. ‘The negroes have proved all: along our
friends. They have been our guides, our spies, ory
means of information, and have donc not a dite to-
wards adding luxuries to the fare of thecamp. The
African is naturally imaginative and an exaggera-
tor. ‘To Samboa regiment is “tousands ob dem,”
and afew funs crow marvelously mamerousas his
tile is oftener told. But, due allowances being
made—with some of the most intelligent: and ob.
serving very Httle is necessary—thelnegroes can be,
and have deen, nade a great help to us in our
Inovements.

=

Lam told that one of our most prominent officers ;

has frequently declared that he has’ relied mnaeh on
the intormation brought by our dark-skinned
friends, and has not found it at fault) with asecer-
tained facts. In this particular expedition to Port
Ferry, they saved ts by their warning state-
yman ainbash concocted by the rebels,

Royal

Othe joyful sound;” “The volee of

sides this gave other information in regard |

1
A LOT OF CHEERS.

“Thum Sanpinns.—Not a great while ago, a
Western Jandlord, somewhat noted for hia blun-
ders, took it into his head to get up a ball
at his “tavern” Aa he Intended to do the
thing up brown, and have everything on the big
anger plan, he faneled that a few “store dxens”
would be a great addition to the bill of fare of pork
and turkey. He therefore inade inquiry of bis
friends and found that theanly delleacy in market
ne that season of the year wag sardines; according:
ly he sent te the nearest cily for two dozen) boxes
sardines, His chivoreaphy, however, was so bad
ay to nike it read, “two dazzen boxes syringes,”
The night of the party came, and ay supper time
drew near, the landlord looked anxiously down the
street for the appearance of the stage, which was to
bring the principal dish on the BIL At last it ar
rived and witha package for the expectant Jandlord.
Directly there was a great out-ery, and a sound of
cursing in’ the bar-roum. The entlre party rush-
ed out to sce whit was the matter, and there stood
Boniface as mad as a turkey-cock, pulling and
blowing with rage. “See there!’ sald he, “see
there! [sent to Dubuque for two dozen boxes of
sardines for supper tonight, and the cussed fool
sent me twenty-three boxes of them d—d pewter
squirt guns, and eays that’s all there was in the
market.”

As Asncnotre TOLD BY Dante, WrEnsTer.—
Hon. Daniel Webster bad an anecdote of old Fath-
er Searl, the minister of his boyhood, which has
never been in print, and whieh is too good to be lost.
: [twas customary then to wear buckskin breeches in
cold weather. One Sunday iorning in anutiuiin,
Father Searl brought his duwn from tbe garret;
hut the wasps had taken possession of them during
the summer and were having a nice time in’ them,
By dint of effort he got out the intradersand dress-
ed for meetings But while reading the scriptures to
the congregation, he felt dagyer from one of the |
enraged small waisted fellows, and jumped about |
the pulpit. slapping bis thighs—but the more he
slipped around and danced the more they stung.
The people thought him crazy, and were in commo-
dion what to do, but he explained the matter by
saying: —“Brethren don’t bealarmed. The word of ;
the Lord is iu my mouth, but the devil is in my
breeches.”

—In the west of Scotland the communion table is
placed in the centre of the church, After sermon |
and prayer the seats round these tables are ocen- |
i pied by the communicants, white a psalm is being
isung, One communion Sabbath the precentor ob-
| served the noble family of Dumbiedikes approach-
ing the table, and likely to be kept. ont by those |
pressing in before them. Being very zeatous for

dual whom he considered the principal obstacle to

clearing the passaze,“‘Come back, Jock, and Jet in |
the nuble family of Dumbiedike,” and then turn. !
ing to his psalm book, tuok up his duty and went

on to read the line, “Nor stand in sinners’ way.”

—"The Hon. Mr. Vinton once said the threat of
secession reminded him of amanin Buffalo who
fustened an olf seow to the stern ofa steamer, to |
be towed up the Lake. After the boat had got un-!
der way, her whicels threw water inte thescow, and
she was in danver of sinking, The owner cried out
to the captain, “Hold on there! Tf you don’t stop
throwing water into this, Pl inakeyou.” | “Well,”
says the capriin, “what will you do?” “Do?”
shouted the enraged man, “PM cutthe rope, and
let your old steamboat vo to thunder.” .

: fye For Dirr.—She hasn’t no ear for
! music, Sam, but she has a special eve for dirt, and
with poor folks thatis much better. No man ever
seen as much dirtin my louse as a fly could brash
off with his wings. Boston girls may boast of their
spinnets and eytars, and their eve tullian airs, and
their cars for music but give me the wal that: bas
an eye for dirt; that’s the gal for my money.

A Goop Diviprxp.—A broker, when escorting
home a fair damsel, asked her what sort of money
she liked best. Of course the blushing beauty in-
rstantiy suggested matrimony. ‘What interest
| does it bri inquired the note shaver, “If pro-
1 perly invested,” faltered the tair charmer, “ if pro- |
perly invested, it will double the original stock eve--
ry three years.” )

—A letter from a colored soldier attached to the |
Burnsite expedition, says: “Weexpect to take ;
Sevesh, box him up, fabel him “dead,” and send |
him to Bunker Hill, on or before the fthof July. |

their accommodation, he ealled out to an indivi- |,

, States Government,

the aid of colored diagrams—a feature of the tecture ; ;
which invested it with an additional interest, and ; Of Schools, 8. 5, Randali, Esq., in his Annual Re-
served to impress upon the minds of the audience | Port to the Board of Education, observes, in refer-

The > by: yor “ti aN ”
to the character of the country, the routes, the ; Then the banuer of “liberty will go up,

inoverments of the cnemy, their foree, their inten- | _ 4 way on seeing an old gobbler trying to swal-

the facts connected with the subject. The consti-
tation of the atmosphere, the cffect of oxygen on
the blood, the gencration and exhalation of car-
bonic acid gas, the effect of this deletcrions sub-
Stance on the air, and the consequent importance
of breathing pure air received a due shite of atten-
tion. Neglect of ventilation and consequent ill-
health were dwelt on to a considerable extent.
Many of “the ills which flesh is heir to,” were
traced to a disregard of the laws which regulate the
Renbinitiral fue sntuence of tz

Jacing on respiration was spoken of, and the
lecturer alluded to a fact of which she had recently
received information—that men also were addicted
to this pernicious practice, which she supposed was

confined to silly women. The lecture throuchout
was enriched by a variety of familiar anecdotes.
INQUIRER.
P. S. Shame upon those men. 1

covuusy.

[From The Jersey (Eng.) Independent, Oct. 26, 1861.]

Tne ORATOR OF FREEDOM.—<After the wretched
exhibitions of prejudice and downright ignorance
onthe American question made by the great ma- |
jority of English members of Parliament acdress-
ing their constituents—we except Mr. Forster, the
member from Bradford, and two or three more— j
it is a relicf,a pleasure and a delight, to turn to the
magnificent oration of Senator Sumner, the dis- |
tinguished son of Massachusetts, which we vive in:
today’s Independent. As a general rniceyen those
who like to listen to good speeches do not care to |
read lon speeches, good or bad. But even such !
persons need not our recommendation to give their |
attention to the graceful periods and electrilying
appeals of, probably, the most accomplished of
Arnerican speakers ; perhaps we might justly say |
the foremost orator speaking the Anwlo-Saxon
tongue ; for, rivalling Gladstenc in enins, he :
more than rivals the vlory of England’s House o
Commons by that holy earnestness which imparts
to eloquence its chief effect, and which naturally is
the product of circumstances rather than of indivi- ;
dual will, Mr. Sumner is world-famed, and for
himself personally the most sincere syinpathy has +
been felt in England from the time that he was so |
treachcrously and bratally assaultet by the rutfian |
Brooks, an atrocity premonitory of the treason and |
ferocity which commenced with the conspiracy of
President Buchanan’s Ministers and the subse-
quent rebel bombardment of Fort Sumicr. The
principles of the Massachusetts Senator command |
our thorough adhesion, and his extraordinary |
talents challenge our admiration, and his coura- |
geous consistency carries with if our respect.

We fecl confident that, had wesatin the Worces-

ter Convention, the orator would have commanded ,
Yer his oration, |

oor vote a3 well as our applausc,

ence to the colored schools, that “these institutions
are steadily and gradually improving in scholarship
i and efficiency.

| Persoxan.—Miss FE, T. Greenfield, the Black
i Swan, and Mrs. Brown of Philadelphia, are stop-
ping at Mrs. Bell’s, 548 Broome street.

Fuxera Sermon.—The funeral sermon of Mr.
Peter Wilson was preached “ast Sabbath, at the
Abyssinian Baptist Church, by the pastor, the Rev.
; William Spelman, The chereh was filled go ay
early hour, and, at the commencement of the ser-
vices, standing room could not be obtained, the
crowd being so dense that a number hail to retire.
The sermon, which occupied about forty-five min-
utes in delivery, was very interesting, and was lis-
tened to with iutense interest to its close. Mr.
Wilson was well known in this city, and had a
tarze circle of friends. He escaped from slave.y
when quite young, and on his arrival in’ this city,
was taken in charge by the Quakers, who started
him in business, and by his energy he had accuma-
Jated quite a sum of money. Itis business was
carpet-shaking, in which his son, a youn, man
about twenty years of age, suceceded him. During
his sickness, he would request the friends who
called to see him, to sing a favorite song of his,—
“Where my body lics all mouldering in the grave,”
which was sung on Sunday afternoon by the choir,
the church and congregation joining in the chorus.

At the close of the sermon, the Rev. Mr. White of
Brooklyn, made a few remarks relative to the de-
cease, in the course of which le addressed his old-
est son, stating that his father’s last desire was that
he should be an honest and upright: man and
Christian. Tis reinarks were very impressive.

Correction.—The report of the concert given
a Madame Maznan, which appeared in last week’s
umber, and signed “Paul Pickwick,” was not his,
but the production of another correspondent. It
was sizned by mistake.

Ssrvixno Gop axp Mawmoy.—Under the head-
ing of “Amelioration,” the New York World of

: Monday last, publishes an editorial in which it ad-

rocates the amelioration of slavery, instead of its
totalabolition, {n the course of it, the writer says,
“Three things, not abolitionary, but ameliorative,

j Would so alter American slavery as to make it un-

tecornizable first, undesirable next, and then in-
visible. 1. The abrogation of the rule which de-

exeiting indescribable enthusiasm, did not carry | termines the condition of the offspring of the sub-
with it the vote of the asscinbly.” The majority | ject race. 2. The recognition of the marriage rela-

shrank froin the tremendous consequence involved
in the carrying out of Mr. Surmner’s straightfor-
ward programme. Aswe have not the speeches of
the opposing orators before us, we will not do them
the injustice of passing jadgincnt on the vote they
influenced, Had we space at command, which we
have not, we would recite and admit the force of
the anxious considerations swaying the ininds of
those who, like the government at Washington and

tion among slaves, and the protection of that rela-

_ Hon by law, so as to prevent the involuntary sepa-

tration of husband and wife. & A’ regulation
reserving ton slave for his own use a given share
‘of the products of his labor, and a right to pur-
chase himself and his children at a price to be
i fixed, if necessary, by some officer of the Jaw.”

tions, which ought to make every oflicer and sol-
dier erateful to them as useful and reliable friends,
for by means of it many jives were saved, anid
greaicr precision and boldness were secured by our
movements.

T assure vou, it is much for anarmy in a hostile
country to have the help of the strong arms and
shrewd observation of a large class of the popula-
tion. While white men have fled before us like
foxes, only taking breath to curse and malign us,
the black men have staid to be our friends. Sure-
ly these poor fellows have earned in their services
tothe Union the thnks feeedam
—the house-servants particularly—have heard their
tnasters’ dinner-talk, and their apparently dull cars
have been quick to catch details of intended move-
ments. So trom them, coming with bundles in
hand to our lines, we can learn the spirit of the
rebel peopic, as well as their devices aainst us.
Surely, we oughe to receive them with kindness,
and reward their friendship,

Prous CoNTRABANDS.—Many contrabands are
very pious in their way, though they have an odd
way of expressing themselves, even in prayer. We
all know about the good darkey who prayed that
his oeloved mistress might be “like a great rearin’
lion, secki’ somebody to devour? Down at Port
Royal, the other day, an old negro was heard pour-
ing out his soul in the company of his fellows.

©O Lord?! he ericd," bress them Yankee bobo-
litionist mudsills.”

“Ainen!” was shouted vigorously by all his com-
panions,

“De Lord bress ebery one of de dear good mud-
sills. Dey pays us for pickin’ cotton, and mass
dow't.”

Poor old Sambo had never heard his new friends
designated in any other terms, and so he used the
words in bis prayer in their behalt.

_—— 4 -—weom eo

Jessi Fremont.,—a correspondent of the [owa
Ste Revister thas speaks of Jessie Fremont:
“T sat to-day ulking an hour with Gen. and Mrs.

Fremont; soon afier, with those who bitterly op. ;
Where will all this
Do you want to know how Uessie’ louks and |

pose them. My heart sickens,
cnd?
seems in the midstof her trials? Whatever may
be thoueht of hitn (Fremont,) lec every) one honor
the wife who se nobly shares her husband’s anxies
ties, and stands at his side strong in love, in’ will,
and energy, to help him to the utmost of her pow-
er. ‘The spirit of old Col. Benton looks ont of ‘des.
sie’s’ exes. The bright flush of ber cheek, the
sweet play of her lips, when seconded by the clear
ideas of her powerful inind, render her captivating
toa remarkable degree. She has scarcely slept. or
rested since she came to: Washington, ‘To see her
husband vindicated is the restless burning of her
soul, and she is mistress of every. statistic, every
item that can weigh for or against him, and it is
casy to sce by the dilated nostril and Hashing eve,
how wholly she believes in’ Fremouvs integrity,
and resents his accusers’ charges. Al, well, bean
remember when she stole from her father’s house
to becomne the bride of the miu whom she has so
nobly followed for better or for worse, She was
so handsome and gay, andl now she appears like
some Roman Matron, full of dissnity and) high ve-
solve. Ehave always felt proud to lave dessic Fre-
ment and Mis. Douglis, opposite in character
though they be, represent us as American women,
for whatever faults they may possess, their ininds
and Gearts bave wloriously borne the changes of

|

; Chase,

low a cotton string, very fue ctiously remarked,
“That was the list attempt to introduce cotton into
Tavleay 2?
Turkey.

THE REQOGNITION OF HAYTI,

Important Statistics fo: Qongressmen.

(From the Boston. — nal.)
BOSTON AND HAYTIAD  OJIMERCE.
Boston, Feb. 8, 1832.—7o the. a's of The Bos-

ton Journal: Last winter | visit every merchant

in Boston having trade, direct or indirect, with Hay-

ti, and, with one exception, obtained the sizaatures

of all of them to a petition asking our Levislature |
to recommend Conzress to recognize that Republic.
The Legislature, with the cordial’ concurrence of
His Excellency the Governorunanimously passed a
joint resolution, requesting our Congressmen, and
instrncting our Senators, to use theirinfluence to
have Hayti recognized by the United States,

Since the passaye of this resolution My. Sumner |
has faithfully labored to accomplish the object. it |
nimed at. ‘The President, | know, even befure his
inauuration, was friendly to this measure, only
vishing that it might not be so pushed as to ent
barrass his Administration beture it was prepared
toactonit. Mr. Montgomery Blair, long betore
he had a seat in the Cabinet, also expressed his will-
ingness to use his influence for it. Sv, also, of Mr.
{ was informed that Mr. Welles was equa!-
ly friendly to it; butof this [E have no personal
knowledge,

IT know of no merchant, who has had dealings
with Hayti, who is not heartily in favor of this ace
of tardy justice, as you rightly call it. Our large
trade with Hayti has long suffered in’ consequence
of our refusal to recoznize Che national independence
of Hlayd, which, whether we regard ourgwn_ pre-
cedents or those of other mations, las been equally
tawise and illiberal.

All of the great nations have recognized Tayti—
hhaly, Spain, Holland, Prussia, Russia, Austria, the
small German States, Sweden, Detmark, Mexico,
Brazil, and various lesser powers. Englanil, France,
Spain, Prussia, and one or two secondeclass Powers
have Consuls General in’ Porteau-Prince. England
and: France tive the accredited ambassadors of
Haytiat their courts, where they meet, on a footing
of pertect equality, the representatives of other na-
tions. Even our Buchanan and Mason, were, by the
inflexible etiquette of those courts, obliged to meet
my friend Damier, who isa pure black, at St. James,
and LEspinage, who is a man of cotor, at Pavis,as
they met the ambassadors of Russia and Spain,

The dreat of seeing a black ambassador in
Washington has confessedly been the main reason
for so long refusing to recognize Hayti, That
dread having been removed, why longer delay
to recognize the first country in the Western
Hemisphere that successfadly imitated Me example
set by (he United States in throwing off ue
ropean allegiance 2 Lbelicve we recognized the
great King of Mosquito, whose royal vestures are
deseribed by travellers as consisting of a loug-nine
cigar, and a pair ofspurs, Shall we, then, hesitate
longer to recognize a country whieh lings produced
warriors and stutesmen of first-class genius—such
as Toussaint L'Ouaverture, Rigaud, Christophe,
Borgella, and) Dessalines--historians of the ability
of Madion, Ardouin, St Amand, and Nau ?—tegis-
ators and: executive chiets of the rank of Petion,
and Fibre Getfvard 2?) [tis absurd and un

the majority in the Worcester Convention, shrink | The World has always had the reputation of being
from the course of altimate safety through present | a pious paper, and, perhaps, judged by the rule of
peril pointed ont by the Maasachusetts Senator, | the Pharisce, itis so; but it overlooks one import-
jut althoush we can make every allowance for ant fact which its piety ought to lave taught it,—
President Lincoln and bis Ministers, and these , You cannot serve God and Mammon.”
Massachusetts men who hesitate to invoke the | —

sword of Sparta, still, we repeat, all our svm- Brooklyn News.

pathica are with Mr. Sarnner, the cause of which ! we Mewes . pe
he is the chatnpion, and the policy of whieh he is | Brook iy x F&MERALDA ASSOCIATION ~ This
the exponent. Although grammariana will not) Association gave its first concert and exhibition on
allow the comparative and snperiative of “right,” . Wednesday evening, February Uth, atthe Brook-

prosperity and adversity.”

ee ed

Boyer

wise to delay any longer,

And it will not pay, Soulouque, bullied and |
bamboozled hy Dail Green, agreed to abrogate a
tliscriminating (aux against American goods and
vessels, higher by 12 percent, than those levied on
other foreien commerce; but Tavtian writers are
treing the renewal of it, should the United States
persist, contrary to the avowed principles of the
party in power, and to the inclination of the Presi-
‘dent, to keep their country outside of our political

Pusxsyevanta CoLostzation Socirty.—The
next vessel for Liberia will sail in’ May next, and
we understand that the prospect of having a large
nomber of cmigrants to go our with her is very en-
comming, A niinber of colored people an this
State have signified their intention of making Li- i
beria their home. ‘The receipts of the Society dure ,
ine the inouth of January amounted to S127 02.—
PL Ledger, Feb. (3th, V8.

and know nothing of “righter”? and “rightest,”” we
must nevertheless affirm that Gen.
right. Gen. Fremont more right, and that Senator
Surmner is roost right. We have not space at
present to follow ap this theme, but must conchide
by arging allio read the brilliant speech preceding
these few remarks, an oration traly worthy of

“The holieat canse that tongue or sword

Of mortal ever lost or gained.”
at + ns = © am pe - Senin

CANNIBALISM AND Stavenv—An Onp Ipna
RESCHRECTED.—A Kansas reader of The Pine and
Palm thus writes, reviving a quaint idea which we
threw out somewhere in the prairies:

“Dear Sir; Uately received a number of The
Pine and Palen, from which learn that you are
General Agent for Haytian Krnigration, and that
you are the same arch-opponent to Slavery that
you were in Kansas, and if anything in more am-
ple proportions.
say, ‘is but one deyree above cannibalism, for, if
the Slavchalder docs not cat his victimadireetly, he
does a0 indirectly by eating up the entire products
of their lives—food, clothing, children, hearts, con-
alenres, Intellecta” Again, ‘that Slaveholders have
been barbariansin every eve and nation; that Shiv
ery ia Incompatible with freedom—that one or the
other muvat be putdown!’ And, sure enough, this
crisis has come.”

—We think, now, that Sinvery is Infinitely worse
than Cannibalism; for the cannibal cats dead men's
bedies, the Slavehollers live on men's soula, Both
Mavery and cannibalism are equally incompatible
with Christianity. Feejee Inlanders and Southern
Secesslorists mast equally be scorched ont of ox.
istence under the influence of the burning raya of
the Sunet Rightesuaness. ‘ *

sutler was ®

‘Slavery,’ av [once heard you !

‘lyn [nstitute, to a very full house. Professors
Brown and Waldron, and Misses Price and Stith,
comprised the orchestra. The first two are so well
-known, and have been so frequently criticised, that
‘itis unvecessary for us to enter into a review of
ltheir merita and defects. ‘They are, in our judy.

ment, the best inusicians our city affords. The two

ladies are excellent players, and the best compli-
tment we can pay then is, that they execnated their
“musie with a great deal of care, which was fully
“appreciated by the audience. The Misses M. and
L Voglesang proved themselves a superb addition
ito the entertainment, althotwzh Miss Louisa was
. suffering from a severe cold, yet she sustained her
i part admirably. The singing of Misses W, Baker,
"A. Hall, and Messrs. George Hall and P. Wil-
lina, was very well executed, and clicited the
i most hearty applause, W. BR. Jackson ably oflei-
ated as conductor, The gem of tho evening was
the lnnghable farce of Box and Cox. Mr. P. Vo-
glesanyg personated Box with good cffect, thourh
inclined to overdo the part, at times. With a little
care nnd atudy he will make avery coor -actor,
Mr. DD. Harringion is dechledly good, as Cox. ‘To
Miss Louisn Vogiesang, particular credit is due for
her nonssuming, yet careful and epirited acting.
She has inarked talent, and can afford to aspire,
we think, to aoréle of rather a more nimbitions
grade than that of Mrs. Bouncer, [tis ta be hoped
that the Association may be induced to repeat this
exhibition at an early day. They would be sure to
draw a full house. After the exercises, the com-
pany repnired to Poplar Dall, and enjoyed them
selvea until date hour, when all retired to their
respective places of abude, well sutished with the
evening's enjoyment.

A spasm! How different from the definite state-
Incot and distinet announcements Of the Haytian
Bureau! ‘The only sure thing about it is the $127
02. GL, di

a

—— The article, “Reasons Why the United
States Government Ourht to Recognize Hayti,” or
our fourth page, should have been credited to the

Hoston Traveller,

beet tee eee pe
Onrrvany.—Franeia Dateher, the old negro,
who has for nearly halla century acted as messen-
rer to the Secretary of War, at the War Depart
ment, died stddenly to-day. fle was at his post
nad the closing of the Departincat yesterday.
Old Francis is well known to all who have been in
the babit of visiting the Secretary of War for the
last forty years. ‘There are none inthe commanity,
white or Diack, who have borne a more anim.
peached reputation for respectaniliy and integrity
than Old Francis.—. ¥. Herald, Feb. V1,

-- (woe mae
—"Oh, mania, Lasked Miss Brown what isdew?
She says it is the moistare imbibed by plants dur
joy the nights of summer months, New, mania,
dear, dew is the condensation of aqueous vapor
by a body which has radiated its atomle motion of
caloric below the atmospheric temperature.”

—They mean to raise tall students ina town ott
in Wisconsin, An exchange paper says :—"'Tts
Board of Education has resolved to ereet a build.
ing Jarge enough to accommodate five hundred
students three stories high!”

— "That's a beantiqnl birrid.” said) Patrick, cons
tomplating ashuok, “bat (think the carling muse
have been edicated widthe modern dandies, for he

perfumes so much.”

paleof civilization. 5
In order that our Congressmen ine merchants
tay see the wisdom of an speedy recognition of

mie { subinit the followtay: statistics, which are
j drawn from the last Report of Commerce and Nave
; iyation, and from the files of the Boston Shipping

List for i861. To any one interested in the subject
Eshall be happy to furnish the minutest details of
this commerce,

We have commercial relations with seventy-five
couutries,  Hayti ranks as the 2ist inthe compara:
five importance of our exports thither; with re-
spect to imports as 2th, During the year ending
June 30, 1860, our exports to Hayti amounted to
$2,673,682, aud our imports thence to $2,002,725.
“We exportas nuch to Haytinas to Russia, but our
imports from THayti exceed those from Russia by
$500,000 per annum. We export to DBaytioa
million anid aquarter dollars’ worth more than to
Sweden and Norway, more than nineteen times as
much as to Japan, more than four times 3 much
ns toallthe Freneh West Indies, Our finports
from Hayli are double those from ‘Turkey, and a
hundred fold more than from the French West
Ludies.”

So much for our general commerce,

With respect to the commerce between Boston
and Hayti, Uhave had the returns, published in the
Boston Shipping List, from week to week carefully
collected, and this is the result:

The value of the coffee imperted from Hay tnto
Toston, for tho year 1861, amounted to $105,427.
Tho value of the importatfons of lopwood, fur the
same poriod, was $140,569. OF cotton the ship-
ments were sill, and: the value was estimated at
only $8,683.) ‘That of Hynumvite was still less, ft
being only $1,680. So that the total yatue of the
year’s hmports amounted to $559 59.

From the fist of exports, [Ciappears that the quan:
tity of alewives shipped to Hoyti, dari the list
your, was 12,080 barrels and 62 half-barrela; butter,

mee Bae eee ed ee

9720 pounds, 2199 keys, 480 pails, 57 Jara, 4 boxes
and 635 packages; bread, 518 barrels, 40 boxes, 101
Darrela, aud 32 other prekiyces of various kinds; of
beef, $05 barrels, 101 hall-barrels, 16 quarter-bar-
rels, 32 kegs and two other packages: boards, 616,-
SOL feet; codiish, 36,519 quintals, 326t drama, 4
half-drums, 80 quarter-drums, and 776 boxes; cane
es, 10 cases, 2317 boxes, and 4000 pounds: elyars
25,600; crackers, 632 enses, 146 keys, 635 tins, ane
160 other packages; cheese, 8082 boxes, snd 6792
pounds; flour, 26,324 barrels; Inrd, 3477 keys, 3100
pails, 82 cases, 220 packages, 20,190 pounds, and
several packages of other denominations; mackerel,
0007 barrels, 48! half-barrels, and V1 other pack -
ages; pork, 13,187 barrels; rlee, FOL barrels, 3367
half-barrels, and 19,740 pounds; sugar, 233 barrels,
304 boxes, 152 Inull-barrels, and 30,916 pounds:
soup, 116,730 boxes, 225 quarter boxes, and 100,800
pounds; tobacco, 35,000 ponads, and TL packages
of various hinds; fish, 955 barrels, 227 packages,
and 2020 hoxes; house frame, 121,46f feet; and
hams, 7399 loose, 5175 pounds, and 24 barrels,
tierces, or casks. Other articles were exported in
smaller proportions. The conveyance of those ex-
ports called into requisition the services of 305
vessels, chiefly brigs and schooners, varying
in size from 150 to 300 tons. Of that num.
ber, there were 5 barques, 149 brigs, and 15!
schooners; and assuming that each vessel had a
crew of six men, the trade would thus give employ-
ment to upward of 1800 seamen, To how many
thousands of other persons this branch of com-
merce gives regular employment, it would be difl-
cult to determine, but judging from the list of ex-
ports, the number must be very large.

Let the facts, however, speak for themselves.

VALUE OF IMPORTS.

The value of Haytian imports into the port of
Boston for the year ending December 31, 1861,
were:
Coffet........665-
Louwood.
Cotton...
Lignumyitee. ............

ste ee creer eran e es ING, 427

oe coe 40,535

- 8,633

. 4,080
$5.50,359

NUMBER OF VESSELS EMPLOYED.

BarqQues, 0.0.0.0. cece ee ese ee ceeten eee

Brivs... :

Schooners.....

seen AAD

seesee ee AD

805
I wish to add, lest any politician, fearful of the
destruction of his party from the presence of a

| colored ambassador in Washington, should be in-
‘ clined to oppose the interes

sof our merchants by
refusing to recognize Hayti, that, if this measure
is promptly passed, Cam authorized to say. or do
say, at least, having authority for so doing, that
there will be nu reason given by the Government
of Hayti for such an apprehension or possible
calamity. Very respectfully,

JAMES REDPATH,

(From the Philatelphia Inquirer.]

Wayti.~Georze Lawrence, Esq., who signs him-
self Acting Consul tor Hayti, sends us the folluw-
Ineo

PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 6. 1852.—Hd. Philadelphia
Inquirer—Sir: As an American, and a lover of
my country, one why desires to see her in the fa-
ture, as in the vast, one and indivisible—xreat, wlo-
tions and free—holding and exercising a controll
ing influence throughout the whole of this Western
Continent and its adjacent: [stands, I am. eratitied
atthe prospect of the early recognition of the Re-
public of Hayti by the present Administration,

Thailitas the inauguration of a wise pohey,
which, abandoning the idea of further territorial
agerandizement, looks to the cultivation of com-
mercial interconrse and friendly relations with sur-
rounding States and peoples,as the surest means of
extending the isfnence and perpetuating the sway
of Democratic principles and forms of govern-
ment,

T revard it asa measure well calculated, if car-
ried out ina liberal spirit, to check the insidious
desis of European powers, and to pave the way
for the acquisition of that prestige, de fucto, which
the Monroe doctrine, de jure, claims forthe United
{tis not my desire to allude
to the troubles which at present disturb our do-
mestic quiet, and jeopardise our national existence,
uny further than to suggest chat the measure to
whieh Lallude cannot fail to harmonize with and
promote whatever poticy sound wisdom may die-
tate for the maintenance of the Union, upon the
immutable basis of equal and exact justice to all
Our commerce with Hayti, already large and
important, only needs the encouragement which
her recognition by this Government will afford, to
assume eommanding proportions, and largely aug-
ment the wealch already flowing tous through
that channel.

The commerce between the United States and
Masti is the eighth in point of importance to this
country, Itis farger than that with Venezucta,
Bolivia, Pern, the Argentine and Cisalpine Repub-
lics, all included, [ni 1851, the Mexican States im-
ported from the United States $330,000 less than
Hlayti, and employed 26,000 tons less of our ship-
ping. | The present value of the importations fram

the . teen
wou Ulitede States is about

men.

$2,250,000 and the
amount of duty paid by them to the Haytian Treas
ury is about forty per cent, of the whole revenue.
The chief of these importations are pork and flour,
which amounts to about fifty per cent. of the whole,
The whole commerce of the island employs annu-
ally between 500 und 600 vessels, giving a total of
about 70,060 tons, of which the United States com-
merce employs about 250 ships, and an aggreyzate
of 37,000 tons.

The import duties paid by the United States to

! the Haytinn Government, under the rule of Sou-

LOUQUE, amounted annually to about $300,000, or
one-third of the revenne of the Empire.

Since the reinauguration of the Republic, under
President Gerrrarp, the commeree of the two
nations has larvely increased; and should the meas-
ures now in progress to secare a large colored emis
gration from this country be successful, it may be
expected thatit will be still further increased,

During the past year, more than iwelve Inindred
colored people have emigrated from the United
States and Canadas to Uayti, and a much larger
number are expected to follow in the course of the
next twelve months, This State has furnished a
large number, and many more are organizing in
industrial associations, and preparing to start in
the Spring.

These people, in changing their sky, do not
change their mind, but carry with them American
ideas, enterprise and modes of industry, and like-
wise the germ of American institutions. Already
the inthuence of their presence is seen in the quick-
ening of agricultural pursuits, and will, ere long, be
telt by us, in anincreased production of the im-
portant: staples of Haytian growth, and a more
aetive demand for our own, Leaving philanthropy
entirely out of the question, and reiying upon
seitishness alone, [ think [ may with contidence so-
licit, through your columns, the attention and fa-
vorable regard of the American public to the sub-
ject of the recognition of the Republic of Hayti,
and its relative importance to our future position
asa controlling power on this continent. Yours,
very respectfally, GEORGE LAWRENCE, JR.

THE NOR-WESTER GLUB,

CIRCULAR OF WM. J. WATKINS.

A Word to my Friends, and to the
Hiaytian Emigration, generally,

The work yvoes bravely on. Many waters can-
not queneh it, nor all che floods drown it, Despite
the unholy machinations of envy, the gross mis-
representations of disappointed dishonesty, vulgar
impudenee, and mental imbecility, the Taytian
Einigration Movement has suceceded bevond the
expectations of its most zealous advocates and well-
ers. Firm in the convietion of its righteous.
s and practicability, [ have not, as an Agent of

‘yiends of

=

ws
| the Emigration Bureau, solicited or desired exemp-

tion from the chitting breath of criticism, T have
tad neither time vor inclination to attend to the
bark offevery litde cur that has yelped at my heels
to attract publie notice. Bat when PE have found
honest opponents, Ehave endeavored to meet them
in the spiricof brotherly affection, and with that
liberality which should) be extended to those who
entertain different views from those which clicit
our sympathy and approval.

L propose to vo to Hayti with my family in the
early part of May next. Tt is my desire to go at
that time as the leader of a colony of men and wo-
men of the right stamp, remain some six weeks in
the Republic, and atter visiding the various points
of interest, return, God willing, to this country,
and give the people who desire to hear, the result
of my experience and observation, Uhave already
the mimes of severad persons who wish to emigrate
under my immediate supervision, Those desirous
of becoming members of this colony, will corres.
pond at once with LN. Cary, Esq., Detroit, Micht-
man, Canadian emigniunts will address this gentle.
man at Windsor, C. W.

Wad. Warkins,
Agent of Uaydan Emigration for the Norwestern

States aud Canada.

Pontiac, Michigan, Feb, Uith, 1862.

NEW YORK ADVE

+ 4 megraving of Grr
AV riatp, the President of Hayth; suitable for framing.
Sent by mail on receipt of 15 conta, Agente wanted every.
where. Addivas JAMES JF SPELMAN, 48 Beekman street,
Now York 1
TAO LET.---Rooms fn house No, 21
Ao also at No. 1G Wost (7th street.
van street. 135—"*t
MANS & LOCKWOOD'S AGRICULTURAL IMPLE-
| AMENTAND SEED WARBHOUSE, 2223 CORTLANDT
STREEE, NEW YORU. —Ploughs, Hoes, Harrowe, Spades,
Shovels, Picknsca, Crowbara, Cultivators: (min, Flour, amt
Coffee Mills; Chalus; Rakes, horse, aute, and dog powers;
Vilehforks; Saws; Ox Yokes and Hows; Uatehetes Ham-
hiers; Sleep-Shears; Com-Shellers; Hay-Cutters ; Sey ties,
ane Craules,

Alko—(innten and Vegetable Seeds of all kinds,

Speeial attention given to supplying emigrants to Haytt,

Orders Crom Hay i solicited, aud) catalogues sent when
applted for,

Orders for goods nut hour Une will be eatlahictorily Aled.

Wa MAPES & LOCKWOOD,

Sullivan, stret, anit
Tnqufeo at 213 Sulll-

Aaytian Advertisements,

HAYTIAN Siivrixa Buneau or EMIGHATION,

48 Beekman street, New York, Feb. 1, 1862.

Emigration to Hayti.~-Arrange-
iments have been conchided by which
pemiyrants can be forwarded, in small
companics, by regular packets, to all
of the ports of Hinyti, at the same rates as are
charged in our chartercd vessels,

A chartered vessel will sail for Aquix, where
preparations are being invle for an American set
Uement, as soon as a colony sufficiently large fs
ready for ernbarkation.

NEW YORK LINPS.

The barque Manyveanp (Danish), 385 tons bur-
den, Captain J. Patten, will sail from New York on
the 25th of February, for Port-au-Prince direct,
from which passengers will be sent to any port they
may select. She can accommodate from 100 to 1590
emigrant passengers,

The next Emigrant vessel will sail on the 32th
of March. She will touch at Gonatves, where the
February colony will locate.

PHILADEL?PITA LINE.

The fine harque Amentcan, Capt. Christian, will
sail from Philadelphia, about the middle of Apri!
She will be permanently titted up to carry fifty pas.
sengers.

ROSTON LINES.

The schooner ’rantsess, Capt. Adams, 122 tons
burden, will sail from Boston, March 20, for the
port of Miragodne, direct. She can accommodate
three emigrants,

As the accommodations for temporary lodgings
at St. Mark are already Inadequate to the wnex-
pectedly large demands tnade on the Agents of the
Government there, all intending emigrants are car-
nestly recommended to select Aquin, Cape Hayti,
Jacmel, Cayes, Jeremie, Miragoine, Gonaives or
Port-au-Prince instead,—at all of which places am-
ple arrangements can be made for the proper re
ception of large numbers of them.

All persons desiring to sail at any of these dates,
are requested to give carly nose, personally or by
letter, to James Redpath, General Agent, Haytian
Bureauof Emigration, New York; or George Law-
rence, Jrt,, Room 3, Anthracite Building, Phitadel-
phia; or, if they live in Canada, to Isaac N. Cary,
at the Western Branch Bureau, Windsor, C. W., in
order that passages for them may be seeured in
advance. Hesry MELnossE,
Corresponding Secretary.

CIRCULAR.-—No. I,

To the Blacks, Men of Color, and Indians in the
United States and the British North American
Provinces:

Friexps,—I am authorized and instructed by
the Government of the Republic, to offer you, in-
dividually and by communities, a welcome, a home,
and a free homestead, in Hayti.

Such of you as are unable to pay for your pas-
sage will be provided with the means of defray-
Ine at,

‘Two classes of emigrants are especially invited
—taborers and farmers. None of either class, or
any class, will ve furnished with passports, who
cannot produce, before sailing, the proofs of good
character for industry and integrity.

To each family of emigrants, five carreaux * of
fresh and fertile land, capable of growing all the
fruits and staples of the tropics, will be gratuit-
ously given, on the sole condition that they shall
settle on it and cultivate it, and declare their inten-
tion of becoming citizens of Hayti. To unmarried
men, on similar conditions, two carreaux will be
granted, -

Board and lodging, free of cost, will be furnished
to the emigrants for at least cight days after-their
arrival in the island.

The government also will find remunerative
work for those of you whose means will not per-
mit you to begin immediately an independent
cultivation

Emigrants are invited to settle in communities.

Sites for the erection of schools and chapels will

be donated by the State, without regard to the re- |

ligious belief of the emigrants.

The same protection and civil rights that the
laws give to Haytians are solemnly guaranteed to
the emigrants.

The fullest religious liberty will be secured to
them; they will never be called on to support the
Roman Catholic Church. .

No military service will be demanded of them,
excepting that they shall form military companies
and drill themselyes once a month.

All the necessary personal effects, machinery and
avricultural instruments introduced by the emi-
grants shall be entered free of duty.

The emigrants shall be at liberty to leave the
country at any moment they please; but those
whose passage shall be paid by government, if
they wish to return before the expiration of three
years, will be required to refund the money ex-
pended on their account. A contract, fixing the

ai : : Mes ENS

n nt ~ ha moadn wit! * ..
OT Wie we aus so essed CGAL EMMgTaNr Defors

os ep
leaving the continent.

I have been commissioned to superintend the
interests of the emigrants, and charged with the
entire control of the movement in America, anil
all persons, therefore, desiring to avail themselves
of the invitation and bounty of the Haygian Gov-
ernment are requested to correspond with me.

Tshall at once, as directed by the Government,
establish a bureau of emigration in Boston, and
publish a Guide Book for the use of those persons
of African or Indian descent who may wish to
make themselves acquainted with the resources of
the country and the disposition of its authorities.

I shall also appoint Agents to visit such com-
munities as may seriously entertain the project of
emigration,

Immediate arrangements, both here and in
Hayti, can be made for the embarkment and scttle-
ment of one hundred thousand persons,

By order of the Government of the Republic of
Hayti. JAMES REDPATH,

General Agent of Emigration.

Bostox, Noy. 3, 1800.

* A carreau is 3 acres and 3} rods.

OIRCULAR.---No. IT.
GexenaL Bureau or EmM1Gration, ;
Boston, Dec. 17, 1861,
Bureaux and Agents.

The Corresponding and Shipping Bureau of Emi-
gration is situated ia: New York City—temporarily
ntdS Beekman street. All letters of inquiry res-
specting Hayti and the Haytian Movement, should
be addressed to me, there. Persons in New York,
desiring information respecting Hayti, verbally,
can obtain it trom Henry Melrose, Corresponding
Secretary there.

The Boston General Burear will be situated in
the Washington Building, Room 7,221 Washington
street. Miss E. Howard, (who lived several years
as a missionary in Hayti), will answer all the inqui-
vies of intending emigrants in Boston,

The Philadelphia Bureau of Emigration is now
united to the Haytian Consulate—Anuthracite Build-
ing, corner of Walnut and Second streets, (Room 3).
Geo. Lawrence, Jr, is appointed ActingCommercial
Agent of Hay) for Philadelphia, and Resident
Ageat of Emigration for Pennsylvania. All friends
of the Movement, and persons desirous of emigm-
ting, or of obtaining the reliable facts of Hayti, are
advised to call on him at the Bureau,

The Western Branch Bureau will he situated at
the residence of Isaae N. Cary, at Windsor, Canada
West. AH persons in the Canadas, Ohio, Michigan,
or further West, who desive aid to enable them. to
reach the sea-boan!, will reeeive it through My.
Cary, whom they must satisfy as to their diness
for the pioncer life which every emigrant ought to
red for. He will Curnish then with tickets,
y them when to start. Persons living in
the States should address Mr. Cary, Box 276, De-
troit, Michigan; but, iC in Canada, they should ad-
dress him at Windsor, .

The Bureaux will be open trom 9 A.M. to 3 2.
M., every week day,

Files of The Pine and Palm will be kept. there,
torether with such other dycuments as emigrants
may need,

The following gentlemen are the authorized tray-
cling Agents of the Movement:

For the Canadas, Ohio, and Michigan :-—Wm.
Jd. Watkins. Mr. Watkins will lecture on Hayti
during the next (vo months, in any part of North:
ern Obid, Central Michivan, ov the Canadas, on de-
ing duly notified of a desire to hear him, and that
preparations Tave been made tor his reception. His
adilress will be, Detroit, Michigan,

The following gentlemen are authorized Local
Agents;

For Maine: 1.3, W. Reeves, Portland.

For Newark, Nv. CW. Toles.

Por Tron, N.Y: M. Bland,

For Connectiont: A. 4. Morrison, New Milford,

No other persons avo authorized to act as Agents,

The following gentlemen are organizing colonies
for emigmition to Hayti in dhe Spring, anid all per-
sons with similar intentions, in their spective lo-
ealities, ave recommended to correspond with them :

Joseph C. Bustiil, Box 225, Harrisburg, Pa,

KE. P. Walker, Toledo, Ohio.

Rev. J. M. Williams, Ripley, Ohio.

Correspondents who wish to write to me on any.
thing connected with The Pine and Pal, should
addyess me, ad Boson; dut, ou all: srhjeets. con-
nected with the TLaytian Movement, at Verw York.

Correspondents should enclose a three-cent post-
age stamp, to prepay a letter in reply to their ques-
ious,

Friends addressing me on personal business,
should mark their letters, “private,” and direct
them to Boston,

There are now no more copies of The Guide to
Hayti, for, gratuitous distribution; but“ Haydan
Papers—No. 1,” which contains a delet synopsis
of the Guide, will be sent to any address on receipt
of n3-cent postage stamp, The Guide ean be had of
G. Woolworth Colton, 18 Beekman St, New York,
at 50 cents for the Emigrants’ Edition, and $1 for
the Gelfrard Edition, postage paid,

Back numbers of The Pine and Pat, or specimen
copies of current fssnes, will Ge sent, free, to any

OTROULAR.---No. III. ©
Hayrtan Bureau o” iutcnarie
Boston, Aug. 31, 1951. mm {
Autuinn Arrangements.

Arrangements will be made by which emigrants
can sail from differemt ports the autumn and
winter. Due notice will be given of the days of
salling, through the colemmne of The Vine and Palm.
ersons desiring emigrate are wested to
read carefally the circulars of this Baresn, an] to

follow the directions ven, as iz fs impose
ble to provide for the comfort of except
our regu-

by insleting on a strict
ing comptiaacs

1. Let it he waderstood, that all
their pected pale en a

tradcs in Haytl, must go at thels own expence ;

guareptess to fad work farmers
and laborers only. - It will weleome all colored ¢m-
Sgrants ; but it cannot agree to provide work for
all classes of mechanics. Its demand for agricul-
tural labor is unlimited ; Wut for mechanical skill
this is not the case.

HC. Passengers will_be charged at the rate of
$18 each adult from United States porta; from
Canola Weat, $25. Children under eight will be
charge half price ; infants under one year, free.

IV, Passengers, in all cases, must provide thelr
own bedding, Mattresses must be four feet wide.
Each passenger must also be provided with a tin

allon can for water, atin cup, atin plate, knife and
ork, a few pounds of soap. and towels, with such
extra utensils as may be deemed necessary to hold
the daily rations. .

Vv. The amoant of allowed to every
passenger is two trunks, or two barrels, or one
trunk andonc barrel, All freight over that amount
will be charged for, separately from the passage
ticket, at the rate of 75 cents per barrel or 15 cents
per cubic foot from American ports. The amount
for all overland freight, when advanced by tae
Bureau, will be added to the passage money in the
Contract. This is exclusive of the Ledding,—which
goes free. All goods must be boxed up.

VI. The board provided for emigrants will be the
navy rations of the United States, minus intoxica-
ing spirits, which will not be allowed in our ves-
sels, The following is the fare:

NAVY RATION FOR EACH DAY OF THY WEEK.

| Jéles

| S| les |

. Hl, ig ° Zui
Pers || el fle siege 2 Es
Eiizidls Biss TiS sis 228
FIZ SS 52 ES 56 3 ad
SB SLLBZ SE AROS OSES SE
‘ow (Bb tb fb 1b (Ib 1b (0z 02 0z oz pt pt el

Sun, j14j2} fa] it 2 $)1 | j]
Mon. 4} {1 2:g.1 nh
Tues. :14/1 3 2idj1 2 He §
Wed. ja] {1 b2ds A
Thurs. (14|1) 14 12,ti1 yl
Friday M4 }1i1] |4 f2 ol 2 gel
Sat. | | $2 3:1| | teil
. i id 1 tat bgt

oglg staialalafisag'7ia'a Halas

Emigrants are at liberty to carry, free of expense,
additional provisions to be used on the voyage.
Slight additions may be made to the navy rations;
but the Bureau does not pledge itself to do so.

VII. As efforts have been industriously made by
unscrupulous men to misrepresent the conditions
under which emigrants who do not prepay their pas-
sages, will accept the offers of the Government of
Nayti, it is deemed advisable to publish below,
in full, the contract to be made with them. The
words in italic and within brackets (blank in the
original) are filled up to show precisely the terms
on which a single man can emigrate, It should
be distinctly understood, that-no barrier whatever
will be put to any man’s return, excepting that he
shall pay the sum of cighteen dollars before em-
' barking for the United States, if he did not pay
for his own passage from this country to Hayu.
The Government of Hayti, while they will welcome
all visitors, cannot reasonably be expected to pay
their passages, Hence this provision.

The following is the contract with the emigrants
who do not prepay their passages:

ee

Articles of Agreement.

THis AGREEMENT, made and entered into this

[first] day of [January], A. D., 1861, by and
between JAMES REDPATH, of Boston,
Agent of Emigration, on behalf of the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Hayti, and [John
Smith], late of [Detroit, Michigan], and an emi-
grant to Hasti ; .

WitnesseTn: That said James Redpath, on be-

half of the Government of Hayti aforesaid

to provide a passage for said (John Smith
from the port of [Boston] to the port of {&,
Mark] in said Hayti, in the [Brig L’Ami d’
Haitil, leaving the nort of [Basie an an eho

eee Pe ee ee as ee ae
the [third] day of [January], 1961, upon the
conditions hereafter following, viz:

First, said (Jon Smith] hereby acknowledges the
receipt of fa] ticket of pass rom sai rt
of [Boston] to said port of [st Mark}, in Haya,
and agrees during the term of said voyage to
provide [Ais] own bedding, and the necessery
utensils for eating and drinking.

Secondly, in consideration of receiving the passage
aforesaid, said [John Smith] further agrees,
that if he accepts a grant of land from the Gov-
ernment of Hayti, under the provisions of the
Jaw on Emigration, approved by His Excellency
the President of the Republic of Hayti, Septem-
ber 1, 1800, he will repay to the Treasury of the
Republic of Hayti the sum of [eighteen] dollars,
American currency, within [three years] from the
date of this contract.

Furthermore, that if from any canse said [John
Smith] sees proper to Icave Hayti before the ex-
piration of the term of three years from the date
of [Ais} arrival in the Island, [Ae] shall pay the
Treasury of the Republic of Hayti the sum of
{eighteen} dollars, American currency, as repay-
ment of expenses incurred by the agents of the
Government for [Ais] passage to Hayti; but,
nevertheless, with this express provision: That
if [Ac] docs remain three years in the [sland from
the date of [Ais] arrival therein, and does not
see fit to accept a grant of land trom the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Hayti, [Ae] shalt not be
required to repay to the Treasury of the Repulic
of Hayti, or any agent of Government thereof,
any sum whatever on account of said passage.

Ix Witxess Wierror, the said parties have
hereunto set their hands and seals the day and
year above written,

“fh. s. [John Smith.}

{i s. James REDPATH.

VIII. Emigrants must pay their expenses to the
port of embarkation. .

IX. To aid emigrants who wish to carry extra
baggage, the Burean will allow them, (by giving a
note payable to the Government of Harti,) to take
such freight to the amount of ten dollars.

X. The Bureau wishes it to be distinctly under-
stood, however, that unless at least twenty days
notice is given of intention to sail, with the amount
of baggage to be taken, it will not hold itself re-
sponsible to secure a passage for any one, |

XI. All persons desiring information relative to
the movemient, ave cordially invited to. correspond
wih the General Burean, or personally to visit it,
The fullest information will be afforded them,

XIL Usual length of voyage, from fourteen to
twenty days. James ReprAtH,

General Agent of Emigration.

CIRCULAR.--No. IV.

Naytian BuREAU oF EMIGRATION, |
Boston, August 19, 1991,
On Inland "Pravel.
To Agents and Intending Emigrants inland:

Gentlemen :-—The chief diticulty that has hither-
to presenta itself in carrving out the project of
emizration has arisen trom the fact that colored farm-
ers live chiefly at.a considerabte distance from the
const, and are seldom able to defray the expenses
of yeaching it. Especially docs this obstacle present
itself in the case of intending emigrants residing
in the British Provinces and the Lake cities, To
obviate it, varions plans have been tried, various
schemes have been suggested; but experience has
shown that they have not been adequate to the
necessities of the case, Tho last plan suggested,
and publicly adopted, T regret: to announee, must,
equally with the others, be abandoned, as too slow,
expensive, and uncertain: TE mean the purpose of
sending vessels from the Lake cities or from the
port of Toronto, direct, w Hayti,

But by an arrangement just completed, Tam able
ta guarantes to pay the expenses of all such cmi-
grants as the Agents of this Bureau may select and
endorse, from any town, or station on the Great
Western Railvoad in Canada, between Toronto and
Windsor—or trom Detwit, Toledo, Sandusky,
Cleveland, Erie, or Butfalo—at the rate of $25 each
for adults, children under eight years half price,
under ono year free, .

The baggareallowed under this arrangement will
be 40 Ibs. to cach adult passengee — Emigrants are
advised not to trike household furniture across tho
country, but to obtain such as they wish at New
York or in Hayti, Feather-beds are not wanted in
Mayd, but emigrants will do well to. bring empty
bed-ticks, and have these filled with straw at New
York, tor their berths.

Kiigrants fom places cast of Buffalo, from Penn.
sylvania and New dewey, aud from other localities
within 400 miles of New York, can have their fhres
to that port advanced—the amount being added to
the sum ($18) which they engage to repay to tho
Government of Hayti, under the terms of the con-
tract they sign. [Seo Cirvular No, TL]

Vessels will eafi from New York, in accordance
with this arrangentcnt, (under the protection of the
British tlag,) as often as may be required—though
it will bo impossible to tix the dates of sailing more
than six orsoven days beforehand, | Emigrants will
give this Bureau, or its Agente, notice at what time
they will bo ready, and they will be notifiad at the
carliost possible moment, of the day of sailing of

pbrgons frtending to emigrate.
Jamns Raprarn, General Agent.

the tiret veseel thereafter. Jaume Revrara,
General Agent.

Zia ras asies

INVITATION.

Rasti will soon regain her ancient splendor, This
marvellous soil that our fathers, blessed by God, |
conquend for us, will soon yield co us the wealth
now hidden in its bosom. Let our black and yel-
low brethren, scattered through the Antilles, and
North and South America, hasten to coopentte
with us in restoring ‘the glory of the Reputiic. |
Hayti is the common country of the Mack mee,
Our ancestors, in taking possession of if, were care:
ful to announce in the Constitution that they pub-
Hshed, that all the descendants of Africans, and of
the inhabitants of the West Indies, belong by right
to the Naytian family. The idea was grind and |
evnerous. :
Listen, then, all ve negroes and mulattas who, in

t

the vast Continent of America, suffer trom’ the .
prejudices of caste. The Republic calls ven; she !
invites you to bring to her your arms and you |
minds. The rseneniting work that she undertakes
interests all colored people and their descendants, |
no matter what their origin or where their place ot |
birth. :
Hayti. mgaining her former position, retaking |
her ancient sceptre as Queen of the Amniites, will |
be s fornal denial, most eloquent and perempiery,
against those detractors of our race who cones! !
our desire and ability to amain a high decree of

civilization. GEFFRARD.
HISTORY OF

THE REVOLUTIONS OF WAYTI.
BY M. SNIST AMAND,

Meriter of the Constitutional
of Ways.

Advocate, former

Assemiiy

Book V.

is for The Pine and Paim.

Tranalated expres

As has been shown, the Assembly of Saint Mark,
reduced to the fast extremity. and surrounded on all
sides by its enemies, had let loose the horrors of
civil war amonz the people, by calling its partisans
to arms, and by denouncinz the government party
and its leaders to their popular vengeance.

Vanquished more through its own want of en-
ergy, than by the power of its enemies, that As-
sembly left the colony; and, absorbed in its en-
deavors to conceal its humbled pride, and to cover
up the baseness of its Hight, it forgot to provide for:
the safety of those who had taken up arms in its '
defence, and whom 3: abandoned. It is true that:
shese were sufficiently numerous not to stand in
fear of the Government; but thar neylect on the
bart of the Assembly a: Saint Mark, shows the!
Magnitude of its terror in the moment of its Hizht |
as weil cs the seltistiness of its members. If its fear!
had been less yreat, if it had possessed a little more
energy, instead of sailing for France, it would have
ordered the Leopard to convey it to the South,
where a devoted army awaited it. It would shen
perhaps have dictated laws to the government. par-
ty and the Assembly of the North.
de Maucuit would, in their turn, perhaps, have been
obliged to fly.

_ The parish of Petit Goave was the first to declare |
Mork Tr will he pee}

i

De Peinier and !

t-te dye 2 Caine

OT UN Assets
membered that it was at Petit Goave that Ferrand |
de Bandiere was assassinated. Longe under the
control of Valentin de Cullion, its deputy, this par-
jah was one of the very few which promised the
oners of the Assembly, during their stay
a-Prince, to sustain them in their contest
with Pe: Since the 19th of July it had openly
avowed its sentiments, by loudly complaining of
what it called the despotic acts of de Peinier and ,
Maodai: and the excesses of their unrestrained |
soldicry; anil to accuse them of contriving a coun-
ter-resoation, in its denunciation of them to the
French nation, the National As-embly, and to the
General Assembly of the French part of Saint Do- |
mingo, *® |

i

i

ener. Sirs

Aa 3600 as the things of the dissolution of the
Comminee of the Weat and the hostile acts of the
Government reachel Petit Goave, the whole popu-
lation up arma, laring that they «were
about te tmarch to the relicfof the inhabitants of |
Post-aa-Prince, and invited all the parishes of the
colony Oo anite with them, without deiay, for the
Same purpox.

On the day following this manifestation, the!
Commane issnela deeres proclaiming the desposi- |
tion of Peinier and “‘prononncisg hima unworthy to
corminand any Frenchman.”

Nearhy all the Communes of the South followed
ne exaraple of Petit Goave; in every part of that
province the people rose in insurrection and took
uparma. The city of Cayes, who Assembly bad
Aerlared that it “adopted the principles of Ue: Az-
serphly of the North, controled and inatigated by
agitatera, adhered to the movement. Codére the
tominanding major, was asaassinated, and Fier-
ville, commandant of theeity, the saine whom the
Aasernably of Saint Mark had appointed to sncecned
Peinier, sent his resignation to the Governor, and
header) the insurrection, ‘The insurgents, uniting |
to the nasuber of five or six hundred, assumed the :
tithe of confederates, and marched on Port-an-
Prince, Artiving at Zogane they halted; and af-
ter aaine parleying, called forth by commisshoners
from the districts of Vort-an-Prinee, a treaty waa!
aignesd between Count de Pointer antl the chiefs af |
the confederation, We shall go inte more mente |
Aetail za to the conditions of that treaty as well as

|
{
i
]

100K Nee

|
|

all that relates to the federation when we come to
five a varticular account of the events transpiring
inthe provines Of the South. This treaty, by the
anspension Of beatilitiea, prevented new misfer |
tunes; but it waa only a traces the partios: were |
hone the Ieee appr) to each others the confedter. |
ates rermaing) anit ant continued te look upon
the Goserament aud its partisana aa enemics. i

Hefore separating, they pledeed themselves to!
Bripefoort the arts ne welling the dee cera af the Gen.
tral Aseembly, and to suspend, temporarily, the |
exercize of a penton Of their rights, pending the
Nerision of the National Asembly. They eatat
Hahed nm federal eon,
tnetobers, holding ite cesdons at Aquin and elothed
with the most ample powers; finally they all took |
anea federal onth,

Thus the trvnph of the Government ovr the
Canmnittee of the West and the Asse inbly of Saint
Mark errver) only to expose He oan weakness; is
snecesa being aholig attributable to the art with
whieh it had 2Auee) a portion of the army, tn
the train of this ephemeral trinmph, dissension aud
anarchy manifested themeelvea, among the white
poptilation, nad between the ried autherities, rags:
atrongly than ever, No superior and contral power
exlatedl any longer in the colony, ‘The agenta of
the mother conotey, whe, np te the thie of thes rev
Antion, had held a controtting anthority, bad al
Nem it to sip from their graep, through no desire
to fontntain the roititary supremacy, ated by appas.
ng rerolutlonary Changes, The popular magia
teacles, through thols inerenas, bad possessed them.
taliee Of the loen) adininieteniion; sind nteonty, in
the Weet asl South, cetteal authorities no longer
exiated: the Cosmrmittes of thes Weat hid been dls.
nelred, mel the Assertly of the Bouth wea eon.
troslen Wy Refit In the chy of Cages,

The Assoathy of the Morth alone retsined ian
therlty, bat not without contending with thes par
Jahies of Vea JuriaMetion, ft aan tls oldest of the
Chow Aseetiles: it had given the first fnputae

FOrRisting Of seventeen

Ohras 108 8 Ha Caninuneged Kati Gian, July 19, 1700

‘apamong the

; the National Assembly.
“municipatides had been created parsnant to the

» to the confederation of the South.
inhabitants were divided:
‘confederation; others

. Assemblies to nominate a new Colonial
‘to replace that of Saint: Mark,

-of the National

: the
- Ino many

ij of Saint Mark, remaining‘in the colony.

i Die to remedy.

| protecting the formation of the White Tufts,
1 these bodies were new sources of division,hatred and
{rivalry in the colony.
vat the same times

tof the Asscinbly

+ complicn

Fo the revolution; and had nearly always heen sie.

cessfil in its measures. Delivered over once to nie
arvhy, it had come forth vietorions and had almost
always evinced a desi to enforce a respect for dhe
laws, The aid whieh it had recently extended to
the Government seemed likely Co inetease its power.
Notwithstanding, its situation was) embarrassing,
aud its authority was none the less preearions,

Its adversaries aceused it of having opposed the
Assembly ot Saint Mark, afer sharing its privileges
and adopting the most ef its principles, In reality,
the Assembly ot the North, in common with the
Assembly of Saint) Mark, was desirous that the
colony should make the hiws for its intera: a} toy.
ernment, subject to the approval of the mother
country, and that no legislation relative to the men
of color and slaves should dake place without its
consent; but it did not desire the independence of
the colony: this was the anty serious difference of
opinion whieh had estranged it from the Assembly
of Saint Mark. On the other hand, seme of its
most distinguished members had gone to France;

FE others had been realted by the parishes whieh bad

nominated them: ethers had withdrawn cither vol-
untarily, for personal motives, or because their
term had expired. ‘The substitutes summoned had
refused to tike Qheir seats, All these circumstances
had weakened the Assembly, aud profiting by this
weakness and embarrassment, many parishes slight

ed its authority and opposed dhe execution of its

deerves, by issuing conflicting ones. The Govern:
ment, on its part, did not shut its eves to the dan-
gers of its position. Tt was very anxious to rstore
onler: but its niictionary policy had brought it

‘into disfavor, in the same way that the vacillations

of the Assembly of the North had alienated the in-
fluence and authorigg which its first measures had
acquired. The colony had no longer auything
more than a nominal government; it was divided
various parties. The Assembly of
the North, jealous of the independent attitude of
the confederates of the South, was desirous of
forming a federation at the North likewise. Inthe
beginning of October, it passed a resolve by which
such a federation should be

ig ordained that

formed, similar to chat of duly Lui, in France; '

should be summoned to he
The ceremony
but it did not

and that all cidizens
present and take the civic oath.
took place at the City of the Cape;

auswer the purpose jatended by the Assembly of

the North: viz., the adherence of all the people
under its jurisdiction to its principles and those of
Several parishes, wherein

decrees of the Assembly of Saint Mark, adhered
In others, the
some declaring for the
remaining faithful to the
Assembly of the North.

Atthis period, an important event, brought on
by the Government, filed up the measure of its
discredit and helplessness, and demonstrated the
extreme dissension among the people. The Gov-
ernment, by proclamation, convoked the primary
Assembly

Doubtless, the Governinent hoped to contro! the
elections according to its views; but its proclama-
tion was unheeded, and the parishes did not act,
Everybody appeared desirous to await the decision
Assembly, and a proposition to
that cfeet, adroitly circulated by the enemies of
the Government, was generally adoptec. This ill
timed proclamation furnished, to many parishes, a

‘ new occasion for openly defying the authority c¢
. the Governor, and to protect Uicir attachment: to

cause of the Assembly of S aint Mark
communes, since the ceparture of
that Assembly, municipalities were created
through the influence of former members
of the Cominittee of the West, the confederates

‘of the South and that of members of the Assembly

On every

occasion, these municipalities assumed to express
the will of the communes, and showed themselves
hostile to the Gov ernment.

nreindices of the
‘dhe socias tere

whites, even among themselves, militated against
the establishment of a National Guard in one hom-
oxeneous an regular body. In the principal cities,
and evenin the rural parishes, different military
corps of horse and foot soldicrs were organized,
bearing the appellations: voluntary patriots, dra-
froons, union companies, gendarmes, and even

nnd
CSUN ire oo

musketeers.

The Assembly of the North had sought in vain
to get control, within its jurisdiction, of those cor,
porations, the cinbarrassmnent of whose imperfec-
tions it experienced, but which it was wholly unaé
The Government was equally un-
able to preseribe a uniform organization for Uhose
corporations. It had been the first to set the unfor-
tunate example of independent armed bodies, by
Aly

Fameore than one commune,
*arochial Cominittee might: be
seen siding with the Asscinbly of the North, and

La municipality cepousing the cause of the Asse,

bly of Saint Mark: cach of the-¢ rival authorities
sustained by a military organization and the inbab-
itants divided into two camps: the weaker party
always appenling for aid to its partisans ins the
neighboring parishes,

Anarchy reigned in the administration of justice,
aa wellasin the conduct of Government and in the
contro) of the army. ‘The old laws were disregard:
d, and the new ones did not obtain in the colony:
The Superior Council of Port-au-Prince, which hasd
evinced a certain amount of firmness, when sustain.
ed by the Government, in causing the arrest of
the first malcontents of the North,and certain agents
of Saint Mark, and of the Commit:
tecof the West, beholding the weakness of the Gov-
crnment, and the constantly increasing audacity of
the revolutionary parties, relaxed its forts.

ft punished certain petty and insdenifieant crea:
tures, but did not dare to arraignu the trae eafprits,
Caradenx, ja Caye, Stnac, and the
arrested nt the commence.
nent of the proscentions, were setat liberty. The
Tribunals of the North also desisted from their pro-
cedares against Bacon de la Chevalleric and bis ae.
Those of the South remained absolute
ly inactive; in this latter provinee, some of the in
sre netuablly compelled to abandon
the mennees to
which they were constantly exposed. Finally, in
the three provinces, public tranquility was disturb-
@], ipon the most trifling pretexts, by the reiissein-
bling of anned bodies of the popalace. ‘To sum
up, division and anarchy inthe departments of
Government, judiciary and in the army: anarchy
and rivalry among the popular magistracies: a
nominal government, but without abitity and with-
out moral force; Provineink Assemblies annulled or
controlled by elaba and by Communal Assemblies,
orbz those districts: here Parochial Committees,
there municipal onessn population rent inte feder-
ations and armed corporations; gatherings and in
surrections in all parts OF the terctory: inelerision
in every mind awl tenor inevery soul,
the condition of the colony after the departine of
the Assciably of Saint Mark, cdat the coummence-
tncatof the month of Getober (700,

[to ne Contin. |

the leaders,
principal agitators,

terior judues vw
their reaidences, in order fo avoid

Such was

peste ct oem > td

feawova wary cin U8, Covenant Cea
TOP oostzn HAL Beense Haytiia one of
the beat costomers which the Cfnlted Biter posses
sea, aseheetinds in the congressional list of ovr
comunercial relations with seventy-five forelyen
Krates or Countdes, Hayti oceupley the twenty fist
rank aineny our exports, an the twenty-foneth
rank dnony our haports,

Hecanse this expensiyy commerce between the
two conntrics glvea employment to thousands of
aperntlyes of all binds.

Beengse the eoptal ef mcobers of ocr merehauts
are invested lathe trade, and da the vessela whiel
rorcy He raerchariise between the two counttics.

Heenuae the Tnythin trade fa on growling trade,
and by ments of wise nnd etnfessmindifes menauies,
Mt riny he trerensed io ten fines He present ameneat,

Sernuse It is the duty afevery woverniment to en
rons He commerce relations with every offer
country, tnonder te promote the welfare auth pre.
perity of bea ewe peoples.

Neenuse the principal Karopenn alens, secinge
thes teropecsrtnriees OF chee ny thane trade: ancl the aed
gence od the Caled Atales fovernincnt, age now
ntrlving, hy every inenna to thelr pownr, to Hyert

|

more emigrants,’

a portion of dt fate anew channel, thereby dnfilet
tyr a direct fygury vpon the comrerce of (iis coun:
try,

Beeanse, while the United States, at consdderalile
cost, thaintaing an ciibassy to Rasdia, our commer
cin relations with Tayi are of far inore impor
tanve than those of that country, for while the for.
ner, With Hts anMense population of seventy intl
lions of people, exports from this country wo more
than does Thavtl, with ifs three-quarters of a til
lion, vet our exports vor THayth exceed those from
Kassin by ball aciltion of dollars per anim,

Recaus while the United States also malotains db
plomatic relations with Sweden and Norway, her
cormmmerce with Havtiis much more extensive, for,
with her small populaden, Hayti purchases from
this county ao million and oa quarter of dollars’
worth of gouds mere than those nwo cotntries, al
thonih they have near five and a ball millions of
people.

Reeause while the United States maintains the
same relations with Turkey. our imports from Ens:
tiare just double those which we receive from that
country

Because white the USS. Government has spent
enormous sins in attempting to open ap cominyr:
ial relations with Japan, Hosti, atan intinitety
less cost, takes more than twenty times the value
of ony prodnets,

Because during the year ending dune 40, 1850,
eur exports to Hayti amounted to $2, 673, 582, and
our imports from Uayti during the same perioad,
to $2002, 723; while, since those returns were com-
piled, our trade has considerably increased,

Recause no specially favorable treaty of commerce
can be made with Hayti until she is officially re-
vornized by the UL S. government, and when that
is done a treaty can immediately be entered into
to the great advantage of our merehants and ship-
owners,

Because, Inst, though not least, political justice
demands it; for while the U.S. government: has
oflicially recognized every petty German potentate
in Enrope, and every petty yepublic in Central or
Sonth America, she lias with a mennness utterly une
worthy of agreat nation, refused to extend the sane
cotrtesy toa people with whom her merchants and
traders are having daily relations.

Jamus REDPATH.

Laytian urea Department,

BOSTON, SATURDAY, FEB. 1 15, T82
~ NOTES OF THE MOVE MEN Ty

Haytiaxn Bervav or EMIGRATION,
Boston, Feb. 15, 1862.

ALLEGED INerrictency op AGENTS UN ILAvY-
TILA Notre From Cart. Monson, AND OUR
AsNswrn—Capmin Hannibal C. Molson, of the
Getfrard Industrial Regiment, writes from Lewis-
town, Pennsylvania, where he is recruiting his
company, as fullows:

“Dear Sirs... . There are eight or ten of
the colony want to co to Hayti next month. Their
names are Samuel Brown, wife and: four children,
James Butter and wite—all farmers They wish to
know if the Government of Hayti wish any more to
emigrate there as there has been a rumor in cireu-
hition, started by people that wont go themselves,
and try to persuade those that would 2o where they
can ve MEN not to vo, that the Government don’t
Want any more ciuigrants, They say that. the
people that have emigrated there are suffering. for
the want of exertion in the Government of Hayti
wiving them their Tands. 2). The people are
just getting their eyes open—just beginning to
awake from the sleep they have been sleeping all
their lives, and are arising to go forth to inherit
the land given to us as our NOME. We have
meciings every week. We are gaining ground.
Atevery meeting we get new members, and per-
sons whose characters stand high. You know, and
we all know, that we cannot elevate ourselves toa
very high position in this country, It det make
much difference how we conduct ourselves. The
best culozy we can receive is for Ure white man to
sav—Well, He isa pretty good darkey. ‘Then,
what do we want to stay here for? Let us arise as
one man and leave this country, and find a home
elsewhere.”

—~There is not a syllable of truth in the statement
thatthe Government of Hayti “don’t want any
7” On the contrary, the last
official tetter we received announced that the most
vigorous measures were being taken at different
points for the reception of as imany as chose to
come. They only say that they do not, at present,
want any more emigrants @@St Mark.

Now, as to the charge that some of the emigrants
suffered in consequence of the negligence of Gov-
ernment agents,

‘There con be little doubt that there has been some

mismanagement at St. Mark on the part of the
Government Agents at that point. Indeed, one
emivrant, whom we belicye to be an honest man,
and who is a devoted friend of the Movement, and
intends to remain in the Island, writes that he be-
lieves the Agents at Saint Mark were in a conspi-
racy to defeat the scheme, and asks us to call the
especial attention of the Government to their con-
duct. We have done so. We have taken every
statement made by returned emigrants, and sent
then to Hayti, so that the authorities may see
what will be the influence of inefficiency on the
part of Agents at the ports of landing. It is al-7
most the only way in which tie Movement can
now bye defeated. As we know that the Central an-
thorities are jn earnest in this matter, we shall nat
hesitate to publish facts showing negligence of
duty inthe [slind. Money is freely spent by the
Government in’ Hay to make emigrants comfort:
able; but what is wanted now, is not the expendi-
ture, so much, of money, but of energy and indus-
try. A friend whom we asked to inquire into tke
complaints of certain emigrants against the Agents
at Saint) Mark, thus writes, under date of Novem-
‘The tetter was delayed and mislaid; hence
martier date:

ber 7.
iis non-appearance vt an

“The greatest evil appears to be this: The Jane
eiven the emigrant is about seven miles away, with
no water within two mil Although a house
was commenced inthe Spring itis not yet cone
pleted, so that the emigrants have been netualll
walking the said distance every night and morning,
Of course that Is enough to disconrage them, But
the agents ave not, perhaps entirely to blame.

The first emigrants have alrenly been distanced
by the hardier and anore energetic Canadians and
furmers of other districts, who have come much
Inter. Altowetber there are a great many stumbling
Dlocks in the way. ‘There is not a particle of sense
in keeping the people waiting for their lands as
they are doing now and haveever done, But there
ix nothing that cannot be remedied by the applica:
Hion of a ovary Title energy and commen pense,
Whoever docs return, Pshall not, nor shall the Hale
impediments growing outof the thawelitlessness
of any one prevent the sareess of the Movement;
for Damm sure we have now bone andl sinew cnoueh
tomake the enterprise succeed,

The Government: ponrs ont money like water,
ftonakes one’s heartache to see how tide bas been
accomplished considering, Us. We have tolerably
comfortable quarters.”

-We think this) states the ease troly, The
earlier class of crnigranta were not alloet the stul
They were

that pioncers should be formed out of,
kept waiting, tao; whieh dishenrtened some, ane
demoralized others. The heavy rains of the Spring
brought siekness with them, and Chis was an addi.
tional discouragement. The Agents at Saint Mark,
if any relinnee whitever is to be placed on Taman
testimony, did not die, uereven very seviousdy ine
jie themselves, by overwork, ‘They
what procrastination meant, by a persidtent prae-
tice of the habit, And, as they paid the emipiants
for whiting, they did) not see why they should
rmable, We do, and so did the best class of
the emigrants, who went out, motto wait, but to

maderstoud

work,

But these abuses] are being rmpidly reformed,
Mr. ENE, the General Dheetor, is anenergetio mans
nal is doing every Ching that it lies in his power to
do, to provide at every port, atiple aeconmoda.
tions for the emigranta, At the bepinntng of every
Movement, there wilh be errors imide, anes preted
difficulties to overcome, and grievances to cotnplatti
OF; bet det db be gemembered that the pnieon.
vetences encountered at Saint Mark did net begin
te compare with Unediscondorts endured, without
soma, by the ploneers of California and Kan
BAA,

After wo fd written about the IneMefeney of
the Agenta at St. Mark, we reeelyed ac detien from
Mr. Elie, da whieh he explains that the enuse of
the delay in giving the eartier anidyrants
thet tad, wat owing to the nforesren
overflow of tho Artibontita iver; the want
of engineers to survey the linda. those nge
pointed faving fallen atek sy and (edhe qivenaenia-
blenees Of many of the emigranta who woukl not
tahe suet inns ne were offered to Cham, abal ex.
cellent quality, but only suet an (eg choose (ore
feet. ‘Phila tater atatement confiama the opinion
that we dong ayo expreased after teadhag Ue aloe

reg of Colom ard others, tha, namely. that
whity there Hae been, apparenily, an tnexensable

bidolence on tho part of subordinate Agente at St
Mik, yet thers had been need of an Associate
Agent, an American, who would not have suffered
tho carygrants to have dinposed on the Government,
Thos, Coleman grimbled, according to his own ace
count, because ho did not got bis land soon enough,
and after he got it refased to yo nnd worl, anless
they gave bina horse to ride outon! His reason
waa, that the land was seven miles from the townl

Mr. Bie writes, ander date of January 17th:

“PT have conumenced anew colony at Arcabaic. Tt
mumnbers 120 persons, Including twenty new arrivals
by the Joseph: Grive. We lind there twenty-six or
shitty families established slice 1826, whieh will
give them the best advantages, Several persons
have settled at Lombard, at Tron, fifteen niles from
the Cape. LT bave had a house ‘constructed there
for fiNeen new families. Lean receive 200) persons
atonce at Aquin, FE shall goto Cayes and Aquin
in the course of eight days. ALL the elements of
success (0 the Emigration Movement are to be
found there, Tshould like to have one or two
vessels sent to Gonaives, where f have an [ntelli-
gent Agent, Mr. St, Ande. The proximity of St.
Mark would fucilitute their establishment.’

—We have made these public Notes, because we
know that the reports alluded to by Capt. Molson
are being used to seriously injure the Movement in
the rural districts.

‘Tun Wen.es Aucusta Conony.—The Corres-
ponding Secretary writes under date of January 25:

“This week the Helen Augusta sailed with 42
emigrants, of whom 2b were from Canada, 10
from Pennsylvania, 3 from Mieblean, 2 from
Southern Ohio, and the others from New York
State, Rhode Island and Virginia, [am happy to
report that ali the party scemef to be highly
respectable, and several of them brought most ex-
cellent testimonials from gentlemen with whom
they had been acquainted for years. Some of the
cmizrants demand a passing word of notice. First
among them was Mr. Jackson and fiunily, from
Michigan, He brought numerous testimonials and
was one of the most intelligent of all the emigrants
Lhave ever seen, He took with him upwards of
$500 worth of agricultural implements, seeds, nails,
&e., &e, whieh he intended selling to the setders
atSt. Mark, and shoutd he realize a good protit
he will probably open a store there for the sale of
such articles as the emigrants there are most likely
to require. Mr. A. Smith, from Canada, brought
with him a considerable quantity of agricultural
implements, and he purchased some here, toyether
with several parcels of seeds, Mostof the others
were also well provided, and [should say that the
amount of uheir purchases in New York, to say
nothing of what they brought with them, exceeded
S100.

[have been informed that some dissatisfaction
was ,expressed among them when they got on
board, about the smallness of the cabin which they
were to occupy. [am not surprised at it; for to the
females especially, it must have been extremely
disagreeable, as married and single, young and old,
mile and female, were crowded tovether in a man-
ner which could not: have been conducive to their
comfort—puuing the question of morality aside al-
together, I know that the arrangement which
was mde could not have been avoided, and [
know that the captain and officers of the ship will
do their utmost to promote the well-being of their
passenyers; but I think it my duty to bring this
subject to sour notice.’

—We publish the last paragraph of this report
of Mr. Melrose, although it will seem to condemn
our management. The state of the case is just
this: We are inclined to believe that a knowledge
by the Government of Hayti, of the bitter opposi-
tion made to their Movement here, eaused them to
believe that it might fail; and representations, for
a special purpose, being made to them of the im-
portance of certain past lead ors of the colored peo-
ple, whom we did not see fit to conciliate, encour-
aged this opinion. Hence, the Gevernment has
purchased no vessels for emigrants, and merchants
trading with Uayti, have not been inclined to put
ona diferent and better class to accommodate

them, But affnirs are now assuming a different as-
pect. Messrs. Becker and Grave have purelased

a fine vessel,—the Marylaad,—admirably adapted
for carrying both passengers and freight; and
Messrs. Watson & Son of Philadelphia, will put on
The American, to sail for that port. As etigration
increa. the ace mmodations will improve. We
will advise the Gc vernment to raise the fare from
S18 to $25, and ther. better accommodations can be
made for emigrants. But emigrants must shoulder
their partof thi ievanee. We advertise that all
emigrants shoul — ve us twenty days notice, and
read af tie cy seldom give us three days.

The Helen At ra can comfortably accommodate
twenty passenigers; but if forty two come down on
us without nogice, and insist on going, why, they
must take the best berths we can get for them on
so short notice.

Tun Waytian Cause Is Micnigan,—Mr.
Spencer writes, Jan. 12, from Detroit:

“TL arrived here from the Refugee’s Home and
Maidstone’s ‘Township in this section. 1 visited
Mr. Thowas Coombs and family. They wish to
Jeave for Havti in September next, sure. Mr.
Stomers, cight in family, will go in the Spring,
even if they have to leave without selling their land.
Mr. and Mrs. Thornton, six in fainily, will sail in the
Spring. 1 visited also, the following families:
Some of them own the Innd they live on, some
lease, sone rent but one and all are going to Hayti
ns soon as they ean arrange about their “Tntids and

stock. EP found some who still oppose the Move-
ment. These ave the names of intending emi-
granis:

My. Laborn Collins and family; Mr. Havhoard

aud family Mr. Baker and famity; Mr. Stewart;
Mr. T. ©. Smith; Mr. A. Ross; Mr. Petersons; Mr,
aeichen; Mr. Norris; Mr. Lewis Carter; Mr. J.
Johnsons Me. J. Davis, (a blacksmiths) Mr. Ray;
Mr. Me Adams; Mr. iTumphrey: Marshall: Mr,
Taylor ‘Hewletty Mr. Henry O'Brian; Mr. 1.
Russells Mr, Henry Perry; Mr. Geo, Boston and six
others— Millar, Tastings, Noble, Ruzutes, Jobson,
Tyler—will eave when [do sarly this Springs.’
—Under date of danuary 19th, Mr. Speneer) an-
nounces that a elub has been organized in Detroit,
nnder the tide of the Christophe Cotton-Growing
Association, which is to buy in New York a cotton-
pin and cotton-press, a broom-making machine,
and enough farming tools to fit out ath ‘Pwo of
the club, he writes, are of high stunding—Mr, Win,
Brock and Mr. Wheeler; the rest are att hard-work-
ing farmers. There have thirteen others joined it.
‘There will be several others from the Refagee's

Homo. Mr. Spencer adds he is in hopes of raising
seventyefive to one hundred able-bodied men in his
club,

—Uniey date of January 26th, he says:

“The late letters da The Pine and Palm tiave
stirred up the pooply like witddire, There will be
great numbers going in the Springand Fall Many
will sell, lense or rent Cheiy property to get nway.

4 moe >

LETTERS ON SOUTHERN WAY'L---No. I.

--| We begin, herewith, thy publication of nseries
of Letters on Southern Elayd. Of the North, we
have a personal knowledge, having traversed the
principal sections of hou foot, Bat, of the South,
our knowledge is linvited, and is, derived, ehietty,
from the Literature of Hayti, [gives us pleasure,
therefore, to Introduce to onr readers, and more
especially those of them who are preparing te cm.
irate, the weiter of the following article, Mr. Vina,
nv French citizen of Boston, who resided several
yents in Southern Elayti, and who will write for us
nidleseription of the whole Southern coast region,
nod answer, through The Pine and Palin, all ques.
tions which intending emigrants may ask. |

OF AQUIN AND VICISTTY,

To anes: Redpath-- Dear hie answer ta

your request for na desertption of the town of Aqain
inn fea nelatbortood, E chink Dean give vou ene
whieh a chree years’ vealideuce in thae district ena-
bles me to make till.

Aquin Isa town of about two or three thousand
Folevteitants; it is altumedt at the farther end ofa
beautiful bay, and fis porta ane of the most sate
on the distin, Daring the three vears E passed
there, Pnever saw nor beard of a shipwreck fn the
nv,

‘The hotecs of the town are made of wood: they
1reof one or two stories Ith and are eovered with
shingles, In tha cearef each house, there isin var
era canon inwhirh a well supplies the dwellers
with fresh water for wading, bathing and other
tlomesthe paurposes,

Mesh water te ponerily found tithe town and
fro the valleys nvound ieata depth of seven ov elalit
feet, TH boas poet as well water generally fa, but the
Inhabitants of Aquit, who ave very partite vatlar, pre.
fer running water, whieh they obtain front the rly.
er Costra, and Jets notimore Chan €wo miles: fou
(he town. Tho water fs (rataported ii two ensks
ef elht allons each, en the back of a dontay.

Tho dlatanies between Aquin and Aus Caves ts
nhott fourteen leazites, and between Aquin and
Miragoftue [tis twelve leagues,

The hhyehwas leading continuously Mon Aquin
to these citles fs a wajton cons ttle wide and kept
fo oud onder by die Goverment. ‘Phere ave alee
wood rowta from Aquin to Lt Anse-d-Veau and to
Aremel, but these are not wigan ronda,

Between Aqui and die Ceyes, there are two
towne: One dy Sadat Lonely a gun aeaport; the
other ds Carafiton, a tolanl vitlage,

On ygolug from Aquin to Miragokne, the frat
town you meet with un Le Views Hourg (the old
town); It isan fuland village only one league fom
Aquila nnd near a river.

vom Aquin tothe Morne Saint George, on go.
Ing to St, Louis, there Is a very fertile valley well
adapted for (he caltare of cation, sugarcane, Indie
go, tobueco, plantain, bananas, sweet potatoes and
alt kinda of tropleal fralte, Many rivera and
springs of pure water ran through thia valley, and
there is no need of digging for fresh water, although
Itean always be found ata depth of seven or elyghe
feet,

On the road from Aquinte Mirngofine, there tsa
continuous valley froin the former town to far be
youd Le Vieux Bourg. This valley, tke the other,
swell watered and very fertile. [nthe vicinity of
Vieux Bourg one can see the ralos of jinmense
buikiings which were Jadigo factories before the
French Revolution. ‘Phe Indigo plantations were
at that thne very flourishing in the valleys of
Aauin, and their owners were very rich, Ag these
valleys are not now much cultivated, the woods
argdid sre fullof game, such as wild pigeons,
doves, partridves, ortolangs, parrots, &e,

The high funds bn the vie inity of Aquin are also
very fertile, Aquin fs built at the foot of 2 lofty
mountain called Le Bonnet Carré, (the square
cap,) near the top of whieh the River ‘Castra has its
sotrce. On this mountain, as well as on all the
hills in the district of Aquin, the lands are very
fertile, and coffee, cocoa, cotton, tobacco, plantains,
bananas, pwWeet potatoes, corn and fruits are enh:
vated there to a preatextent. From these hills the
produce is brought onthe backs of mules, horses or
donkeys,

In the town of Aquin a great many stores are
kept for the sale of provisions, dry zoos and other
commodities At these establisiiments the store
keeper generally furnishes the planters with all the
goods they need and receives his pay in: produce,
at the time of the harvest.

In regard to the trades established in’ Aquin,
there are tailors, boot and shoe makers, distillers,
Dlucksmiths, curriers, watch makers, bakers,
coopers, ship carpenters, house carpenters, joiners,
cabinet makers, turners, cigar makers, hatters, con-
fectioners and drogyists.. Any one acquasnted
with any of the above trades can make a good
living in that town, A good saw-injl established
there would pay well ‘

The principal commerce of Aquin is with Aux
Cayes and consequently a line of packets run con-
stantly between these cities.

We must add here that there are in the Bay of
Aquin oysters as good as those of the Rocker de
Cancale, in the English Channel. These oysters
have no owners and any one has aright to take
them. The Aquin oysters are in great demand at
Aux Cayes, and an enterprising man who would

uTy there, every week, a boat load of these
bivalves, would make a little fortune.

Besides these oysters there are also, in the bay,
pearloysters, 0 tlat bivalve extremely beautirul.
The shell of these oysters would command a high
price in the United States, for ornamental uses.

Before closing this subject, allow me, dear sir, to
say, from conviction, that there is probably no
land, under the sky, more fertile and fruitful than
the hills and valleys of Aquin. ELH. Viac.

Boston, Feb. 10, 1362

LETTER FROM CAYES, HAYTI

RATION,

A CALL FOR EMIG
BUREAU OF EMIGRATION, i
Atx Caves, Jan. th, 1862.

Dear Sir and Friend: IT have for a long time
been deprived of any intelligence from you, but I
araibute it to your pressing ocenpation. I am
going, at the commencement of this year, to call
your attention particularly to the Bureau of Emi-
gration of Cayes of which Lam the director. Emi-
grants are needed at Cayes as well as elsewhere,
and they could be employed here to infinite advan:
tage. Resides the estates of the Government in the
mountains adapted to the cultivation of coffee,
there isa large number of proprictors who offer
ereat advantages to laborers, as associates, (on
shares.) The necessary means would be advanced
for their subsistence for a certain time; aml the
products of each harvest wouk! be divided. Per-
haps [shall be able to arrange with the proprietors
to wive the laborers the first crop, provided they
would repay this advance by another crop.

The Government has already promised us a col-
ony of 200 or 300 emigrants; but Trezret to learn
that this colony will leave your port for Aquin. I
hope you will cive serions attention to our wants
at Caves. Tdoubt not buta part of the emigrants
for Aquin will prefer to come to Cayes, on account
of the natural advantages arising from the position
of this town: both in‘an agricultural and commer-
cial point of view.

I bey you to accept the assurance of my perfect
esteem. S. RAMEAU,

Director of the Bureau of Emigration at Cayes.

—([The General Agent will forward to Cayes any
individuals or parties who wish to go there. The
first who go to anew settlement if they sometimes
meer with crenter inconveniences than their follow

pabees ve

anno fr ir 7
ers, have always the best chances for making mor

ey and getting the Dest lands and bar

a ee

COMMERCE OF HAYTI WITH THE U.S.

iNo V I.—Port of New ¥ ork—[CONTINvED.]

ains.—R.]

Important Statistics for Congressmen,
RY HENRY MELROSE.
Compiled for The Plne and Palm.

In most of the articles which we have pubtished
about the Commerce of this country with Haya,
we have recapituiated fiets enough to prove to anv
unprejudiced mind that the United States ought to
recounize the political independence of her sister
Republic, if for no other reason than to preserve,
and improve, the commercial rekitions which exist
between them. Upon this point itis unnecessary

toenlarges for it those who guide the destinies of

this country allow their social orejndices to over-
rule their admission of this tret, then certainly
they are better fitted for the avovations of the had
carrier than for dhe duties of the Legislator.

In continuation of the article upon the commer.
cial relations of Hayti with) New York for the past
six months of the past vear, we herewith present
some stutisties of the remaining halt) From these
it will be seen that the exports to Haya trom this
portare not so varied as those vom Boston, though
in some respects they are equally as extensive,
The chief ameng them are provisions; and of these
alarge quantity is exported, Among the princi.
mul exports are 273 barrels, and S38) packages of
bread; 160 barrels and d96 tierees of Deel: TH7
fro
cheese, 9,200 quintals of codfish; 19,0
dried fishy 4.278 harrels, 224 packawes, and 250
hones of pickled fish; of four there were exported
2 barrels; of Iams 76,725 pounds; of rice &5T
barrels; snsh upwards of 800 bags, kegs, and tiersys;
pork 10,280 barrels; of sugar more than $00 boxes
and 110) barrels; of wearing apparel there was a
turee exportation, and of building materials, the
quatatitios were propartionately great, ‘The enn.
meration of agricultural puplements and machinery
in the tise indfeates chat iiprovements are be-
ginning in earnest, and that these are but the pre-
tude to fav more extensive shipments of a similir
patire,

The conveyanee of the exports bromrht ito
requisition the services of Sf vessels of all kinds, of
whieh 26 were schooners, 22 were brigs, 8 were
barques, and foaoship. Their united tonnage
amounted to S,97f cous, and the number of the
crews being OS,

EXPORTS,
The following tsa listet exports fom July t to
December 31, E881:
For the week ending daly 2,

Flour, bbts coe RO Bonus, ba
Codtish, qtis....0...08700 Sear, Dxs. td
Died fish, bxs. 00) Lard, dis... ST
Pickled fish, bbls... 0250 Matter ee 1)
Pork occ E70) Candles, Tins, cee)
Reet... ce BEirmber, feet. y,000
Ries ccc eee cece AO Soap, Uxs. LOO
Hudy 9.
Ftonr, bbls 0.0... 8 E20 Shoes, cnses.....
Beet... 0 Soap, bx
Pork... ... 10 Tread, bts.
Macon, tbs... JOO Farnicury, pkys....
Tobaeeo, bales. oo... 200 Sumar, Wxs. oo...
Coltish, qty. o......207 Deted fish, bxs ...
Lard, dbs... Ai YF Dielted tish, bbis..,
Mirth... oe TAN Rive, hes. ooo...
Uheese. eee ee ERIE Uns, baleas os.
( ‘amiles, Dna... 1750 Chains, bls...
Woodware, phase. LAL Manhware, phys...
Hats, Migs... Enee

July te No returns,
3,

Kony, bbts
panes Dns.

Pickled Ash, phys. ..2U
Codtish, qt :

Pork, bbts. OTD Siar, bxs
Lard, Ha... 2. ISAT Rope, pkis.
Wutter oo... 6... 28,8 Coal ‘il nals. .
Mums... “QT Muskets, eases.

Cheese, hs, i 10

Cuntles, h AS) veo

Rive, bids, bene "G0 Retined sugar, his fee
Rico, kos... 8 Linens, bates...
‘Tobaeca, halos... FEI Lanter, 0,

Deied fish, Usa... “Tne
Druza, plas oo
Unredwate. Ue
ity 80,

Furattire, plas...
Kanpty vasks, Now.

Hour, Oba. uk Lavseed off, pats... a8
Vorlons LT Rhee WN
Dave, tha. SAN AMM Cheese, fhe. Wate
‘Tolineco, bales... 1.83 Ratshis, bse... 6. 0
Thutter, Uh ONO Tham, the Vast

Rope, rolls... 6... ED Lunber, 8, ». ond

Amit,

Morr, bbla 8a Matter, dh. DAT
Noel voce cee HO Wont wary, pkgs... 100
Pork, SURO Candles, ON8. 0. RO
Kiev, tee ATL ‘Tobneco, bales... . 200
Lvl, thy. ER Murnttaiy, cisea, 0.00
Velo (leh, ‘bs, Hdd Pomuattes coool
Soaps aso Mushets a?

Nua, relied, hla, 130 Ting, Wis Pra)

rs nnd 97 cuses of enndles; Betao pounds of
7 boxes of

CaMfiah, qt...
Prekled flab, thle
Pepper, haga...

TAG
eel

afr

Flour, bbla. 6. he)
17) 0 PE, 107
Lard, fia... 10,262
Soap, bxas. ee
Butter, Moa...
Cheer... ......
Suyar, Uxa...........

Mama, tha... 1,298
Domenticn, bale wld)

Dotmentlea, Dates, ... 2
Codtish, qua... 0... 405
Pickled fish, bula... 427
Dried fish, phys, . 1,200
Pork, bis oe MN
seefe ee .. oe AQ
Lard, ths... 6,079
Kutter... 2,68

Cheese 20. eee
Ham.......
Candies, bxs........ 42
Flour, bbis.......

Luinber, feet.....24,441

Flour, bbls... . 1685
Drogs, pkys 12
Sugars... eee eee 41
Pork, Ubis. ........588
Bech. oe. 20
Hfarns, fha.........1,466
Lard... 0.00. 606 F089
Soap, bxs. 139
Butter, Sha 4,701

r

Cheese......

Flour, bbis........1, 185
Soap, boxes. . .

Pickled fish, bbis
Dried fish, Dx.
Butter, fb.....-
Domestics, bales.
Cheese, fis... ..
Codfish, qtls...
Lard, Ib,..........6,700
Hams............110

Shot, kegs .....
Linseed oil, gals....
Paint, keys...

Lamp oil.
Hats, cases....
Flour, bbls 363
Pic kled lish,

Lard... 4

Candles, bxs. 20
Cheese, Ibs........1,197
Butter. ......0eeee 1085

Flonr, bbls....
Suyar.....
Pork ......
Codfish, qus.
Pickled tish, bbls

l, 150

Candles, bxs.
Soap.....
Bread, pkys.....
Dried fish, bxs...
Pickled fish, bbts

Paper, reams
Hams, Ibs.........7,028
Tard. oo... eee. EEO
Butter. . 5
Cheese...
Shoes, cases..
Rice, dbls......

..3
wre 8)

Lumber, ft...... 64,370
Tea, pks...ceee eee eed

Pickled fish, Doi... sl

Soap, Dbxs..
Butter, tis..
Rice, bbts.....
Rice, tes. .
Sugar, bx
Cheese, tbs
Candles, Ox
Tobacco, bales.
Tobaceo, hha.
Shoes, DNS... .. wee
Drugs, pkys.......

eats |

Flour, bbls...
Codtish, qt
Pork, bbls,
Beef. 2...
Pickled tish. .
Dried fish, bxs....
i Soap...
Lard, tt
Batter,
Cheese, .
Tin plates, cases
Hans, tbs...
Suyar, cases.
Susar, Uxs..
Bread, p
Domestics, e
Candles. .

ee eu
November 19.

Flour, bbIs.........700
Pork .... 100
Beet, a
Pickled tish Jo
Codfish, gts vee tt)
Dried fish, pkps.....125
Soap, Dns... 6.6... 400

Flor, bbls... ND
Beet.
Tork ..
Caultish, ails...
Piekled fish, bbls...
dried tish, Oxs. 2s.
Soap... ccc eee ve
Tobaeeo, bales... .
Lard, ths
Butter

Names...
Cheese, ...
Urieks, Naw... ve a0
Furniture, eases, 02.87

Flour, bbIs. 0. 180
Boor. oe wt
Pork...
Codtish, qtl .
Drivd fish, xs. Lanes
Biekled ish, buls
Sonp, Oxs. oe.
Lard. Ibs. 0.0... ES

Flaar, bbls. nd
Bread
Soap, Ons. 0.0.0.0 2,090)
Candles. oo...

Land, ths
Beet, bots,
Pork, sees
Codash qs. os
Vieklod fish, bbls...
Dried fish Dxs.....
Potatoes, bbts. oo...
Flony, bb 180
Heol... sees
Codfish, quls........8
Vor, bbls oT
Hams ths. 0.00. 885

Candies, b9 A
Riwad, pha. ee bay
Sony, Dxs. LAE
tan, Ibs... .LS8T8
Matters oo ee SUM
Samar, bxs....... M

Lumber, it, .

Shingles, hdls....
Cheese, Ihe 0 EIST
Farniture, phas....
Vickled fish, thts...

rn)

Flour, bbla. ua
Heels... MOR
Why cece vi
Viekled (sh, bhi
Coidtish, atts.
Lanl, the..
Mutter, i
Tames...
Supnr, bas...
Cheese, tba...
Soap Lt
‘Tobneeo, tiles...
Duttestles, ensex..

vy tt
Decenrber at,

iv

Khaw, bie oo.
vee

Bool, occ.

August 27,

September 2 1
Tobae 0, bales. ..... 70!

Tobacco, bales. .....114
Apples, bbis......... 3
Drugs, pkys. 21.2... 44
Dried truit.......... 101
October

Flour, bbls. ..... 1648
Beers... oe... eee 221
Pork 143
Potatoes

ber

December 3.

Isrent, Phe. | cae |
Drign, cates renee
Lasnte r, eo ‘

Anguat W%--Ne returga,
Atuust 2,

Tobaceo, hbase...

ZLPOM reer eres MA
4! Codfiah, qth... 1. LA
: Fickiot fie, bits, ,.284

‘Drier fish, bins... BB
i Lard, i bi
"unser Ve neee reece sg hih

‘obarca, halen... ADNAN eee BG)
seaf, his veteceteen A heme ccd 439
tot, bMMs oo... Oh! Baap, et ee 077

Cophtiah Atha ee WA:
Linacest ail, kale, oe SB

Sobacen, tales. ......47
| Candies, MR eevee

Bhinsles, No..,... 67/1
Drags, phys.........26
Hardware raven, ..0f9
Bread, phie.. 1005...
Noite, MOMs oe ee eee EY
Furusture, casea.....,90
Matinery, phys...
Leather, fd. cae... 6
Shee, poe cece ence AB
Jacana, bble,.....06-.
1.) IS]
6 rv rnrns L)
Whate Al, gule...... 207
Ag. itnplements,.....42

KRECAVITCLATION OF EXFORTA VPEOM YEW YORK,

Paint, phe. eee AOD Sugars... senee £2
Kies, bis, lag! Orthone, DUN... ce 49
Oolona.,., tence oe dD? Potaties,....0--0. 0 S$
fie C71) ee iH!

tee, a, weed

Suyar, phys one AA | i Ag. eens Pie Ae
Tobnees, ke ; 4. Apples, bMls.........
Tobacco, bale of i Feavets Dat oe coe oe Neti

a.
bdlas ss...

Shingles, a7!
Shingles, NO... ABS
Soap, bxa,....... 2, 200)
Nails, EIR vee 2h
Lumber, 8, rea

Brandy, kes.

SL

OW, vals... one 1G
Naila, keys. tee
Codtish, qile....... 384 |
Pickled fish, bhls,...22
Pickled fish, bxs.
tice, bbls... oe...
tive, i
Caule3, bxs...2....
Domestics, bales.....30

ptember 10.

Beet, bbls............10
Suyvar, bxs 5
Nails, keys.
Bread, pkas
Coffee, bays.
Lu inber, ft.

Shingles, No...
Pork, Dols. 2.2...
Tobacco, bales.......29

eeeeee O

4

September 21.

Domestics, cas
Batter, fs...
Furniture, cases.....

-50 |

Shingles, bdls......240 !
Lumber, feet.....14,971 |
»

Tron, mid. pkgs...

“Oo + bes 8.

Bread, pkgs. PES 3
Sugar, bxs..

Lumber, ft
Rice, bbls.......
Beans.....

3}

Furniture, bxs........2

2,651
63
Whale oii, gals. we dT
Onions, bbls.......120:

Hams, Ths

Lard, Ibs..... v2 82 |

Butter. ....
Cheese.
Soap, bxs...-...-.1, "306

3

Tobacco, bxs.......-10
Tobacco, bates

Tohaevo, hhd ..

Furniture, pkgs......85
Lumber, pes. 7
Suuar, Dxs....0 6... 83
Domestics, bales. ...108
tape, coils..... 30
Woodenware pk 2
Drugs........ os 1
Pepper, bays........28
Codfish, qtls...... «440

Shinstes, bdls...... 209
Sp turpentine, CS...

Nails, kegs... 1
Tar, bbis............10

Haddock, qus........79

~~

yi

Lumber, feet...

Hams, lbs........ 4,03
Lard... eee 45
Bread, pkys. -201}
Onions, bbls... 2110,
M: itches, CASES... TD
Tar, bbls. 2... 2

Haraware, xs.
Beet, bbls...
Farniur, >
Iron, mid, pkgs...
Bread... 2...

Lamp o
Spices, pke
Domestics
Shinzles, tills... 0...

2S
A
2

November 5—No returns.
November 12.

Brie ks, Now... 15,00
Shoes, ca
Furnirure, pkgs
Lumber, feet.
Rice, tess...
Hantwar,
Wine...

Ww oodenware, "pkey:
Drugs, cases...
Rausing, Dxs.

es.

Potatoes, bbls... 50
Tobaveo, bale ih
Rope, pkgs... 10
Heep iron, tan wl
Paper, bdls. 0... ees |
Natls, Kegs

Shoes, cv ee
Land, ths... 66. wy

Butter .... 0.6.6.
Tobacco, bales...
Rice, bais..
Poppers. oes
Shingles, No...
Lumber, ..

Navember 26,

Luniber, ft...
Haniwar, ¢: acs, wee mh
Domesties, Bates. 2. ...28
Lead, rots
Shot, keus,
Paint, pkas.
Candles, oases. .
Copper. sheets... 6.

Rice, ODIs... :

Nails, kegs. ....... 81
Sugar, whined, Uxs. ww
Shingles, New... 10,000
Kerosene oil, als... 40
Matehes, cases. ......20

Rutter...
Cheese
Tobaceo, ba
Camlles, cases... 1!
Luter, feet... EAQUD
Shingles, No. 7 BECO
Domestics, bale, «
Champagne,

December 10,

Snyar DNs... 0000
Rater, tes...
( “heese

Lumber, t..,
Shinales, bdls.
Rive, bots...
Fotaera, hi

December 17,

2,100

Dried dish, bx...

Vobavew, bates... 80
Onions, bbIs AS
Vatatoes. 6. Sq
Roots & shoes, ess... Ww
Catve, Wags. TAF
Tobaren, mil, fhe. 2A
Wire, hols we at
Brivks, No. Ste Oo.
Wine, pkis wae O
Dans. occ ce eee TOS |
Purnitaaw. oe IS
Tanlwary, enses. 6. UT!
Clounpanne. 10
Nutts, Phas... 8!
Vried trate

Deevarbor Y,

Candles, bye TR
Rive, bars,
Vrvats, peat
Matehes, (ists... Ry)
Topper, bau. .
Viwad, pkis

we ce

Nails, hoes aS
Rope, White. ce YT
Lumber, (et, 8.000 |

Dried tish, xt an 1 AWW |
OL ar TEND
Vaeon, Ibs. La
Rive, bile ES

Woodenwary, phase, 38
Lumber, tt,

vee

za ’ Chaira, ells. .

Hage, bales... eG
i Bread, ble. soso. 05 LA3
i parkagcs, acl
: Butter, Bees OTS
eet, this....
barrelt.. cee IY
Heres. eee SOG
Beans,tin........----49
barvela.. oe 6.
randy, pkua.....-. 38
Boots & shoes, cs... .2%
| Bricka..... AZ IN
Cassia, cases. re 30
i Candles, bxs...... GAT
OBES cece eee AT
82
BI

Cc heese, fis......

Champaxne, bbiss... 210
12

: Copper, theete......
' Coffee, hags.....

Lard, By. og
Linen, bales......... 21
leat, role... 22.5.
Mar hinery, pkgs..... &
Matches, coe,
Moskets, caves.
Nails, Heh. BB
Nuts, phes.......5-6-
OU, lisneot, gS
whale... wee AJP
Wamp. ....2.022.-IB
COM cere ce ne A
Fape.... verre iB

COTO one ee TEL
Onions, Lbs. 02... or
Paint, packages..,..22
KOR. eee BIND
Potates, Dbis.. 0... 229
Paper, reams.......29
bundies ...........21
Plates (tin), cases....16
Pork, bbis.......11,2%
Proper, baus.......-121
A

: Fis h,

20;
wee lO!

We ie ;

. ~ 100 |

Hice, bbls...
bags...
Keys...
tierces...

Rosin, bhis

Roya, phos
COUNS, 0. eee ee BT

Raisins, bxs....... ge)

Seap, bx«...

Shoe , ceses,..
WORE ce eee

Sugar, bxs,..

Casks (empty). .
Codtish, qth
Drugs, pk

Domestics, cases.
bales. .............440
dried, bxs .19,979
Fruit, dried, pkes....193
i Fish, ‘pickled, bbls. 4 28
| parkaces see tee es RE
boxes .......068

Flour, bbis..........400 Lard, Ths... 22... ..1,006 ' _ Age
. 100 Soap, | bxg...........5000} Furniture, Pus. packazes Ss

Pickled fish. 175 vrseeeesS cages. U3 Sugar, refined, bole 94
Corts ails i20 Lumber, fi 500 bands. hoxes oo

i a Luinber, feet......5,000 wees. ukws..
Tobaced, bales. aes , OY Floor, bbls Spices, phe wee

September 24—No returns. Tete le —
. October 1. * | Hardware, pke : :

Flonr, obis..........773 Cassia, cases.........10' cases.....
Pork.... ce... 1...,625 Boots and shoes. wee .3:  bOXES...
Drugs, pkgs........145 Tobacco, hales.......€0. Hats, cases. te ee eed Tar, bbls... oe...
Woodenware ........95 Rape oil, gals -R Hoop i iron, ton........1 Tarpentine (spy ts) casest
Bread...... Codfish, qils . 2) Iron, mfd.. pkgs
Beef, bbls Pickled tish, bbls. ...192 Lamber, fee..e. 5
Hams, ths. Dried fish, bxs..... 300 Leather, mid. cases, packages
Cheese. ... Lard, Ibs. . 19,203 | Woodenware, pkes 3: 338
Suyar, bs Soap, bx 1,000

Let’s Away to the Beautiful Land.

For the Pine and Palm.
: Come away! Ler’s away to the beantifel Jen
' Where kind nature has spreed, with 2 bountifal
! hand,
Luscious fraits, and bright flowers of a frecrance
most rare,
That can please our fine taste, and perfome the pure
air.

eee ey

' Where the queenly magnojia her sweat fragrance
sheds,
And the bright coreopsis Hfts her beauti‘al heed;
Where the musical curgle of each launching brook,
. Melts awar in sweet cadence throuch the ccol

shady nook.
Where no dread “winter King,” with bis cold ier
breath,
Comes to chill the bright dowers with an entimelr
j death;
‘ Where the streamlet unfexered is murmuring
along,

Nor waits for the spring to resume its glad song.
} Where the soft breezes fan the dark evergreca
i trees,

And the shimmering moonlight plays light on the
t leaves;
‘ While the binds in all seasons may trill their glad

lays,

i Nor seek a warm clime ina land far away.

4: O, this tropical land, with its beauty, is ours,

All teeming with frnits, and bedecked with car
i flowers:

‘ For a voice from Geffrand, far over the sea,
“NBids us come to this beaurifal tand of the free.

And shall we not away? then why linger w we > here?
, To Bear from the white man his scom and his
sneer!

Away, O my people! Why lonwer delas ?
To that beaatifal land away! tei’s away.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. ADDIE.

A Sies or tue Timtes.—*There seems to be 4
snowing desire amon the colon! peaple of this city
to possess a portraitor President. Gerfrant.”—22-

. tract from a private letter from: New York.

‘GEFFRARD INDUSTRIAL REGIMENT
CIRCULAR OF JOSEPH ¢. BCSTILL.
HaRisntnd. Pa.. Feb. 1, 182.

Tt has been deemed expedient to change the itt
‘of the Getfrant Cattce Growers for che purpase ¢

36 i removing the impression that it was 4 stock oon

“pany, or that persons connected therewith coula
Not engage in the culture of any of the vahaalic
: productions of Hayti but Cotes, Indign, and Spice.
Te will now be understood mat each person thoarh
a member of the Reziment, will be entirely Ave to
cultivare whatever he may chease, and engace in
any individual or company enterprise that may
present inducements of honor or prost. The spe
cial object of the Regiment is to unite in oe dary
‘for mutual streath, intersst, influence, CNTPTRY,
and social intercourse, all the means, intellizence,
cand industry intending to emigrate to Hayti in the
Spring, AS combination af Purpose and proar ti
aude oCacwion must ever produce benedicial results,
the cooperation of all individuals ot associations

8 is earnestly solicited far the snecessil acoumplish-

ment of this great movement. Your connection
with the Regiment will not Tire Means, Nor will
expense be incurred, neither will it in any manner
‘interfere with the present amangements of your or
imanizations. Your ofieers will renin and pertorm
the duties of their present positions, your tead-
ers aeding as yout special representatives, and
be in all respects as you were Before eouncetine
Yourselves with the regiment, erecnry tn nanid, AR
Individuals will beaome members of Company A.
> Altassociations will be designanal alphabetically,

7 faveomling to the date of their enrollment; for ex:

aMple—

1 Ca A, Capt O. C. Hughes, Harrisburg, Pa,

f eR OR Molson, Lewistown, Ba.

Poe aos Win. Thompson, Danville, Ba.

Po oD. Win, MeCown, Taonery, 0.

bo Kos Wing kK. Walker, trenton, No,

SOF, 8 Wiad Soot, Baxnon, CW,
“G, * Asnon M. Bland, Troy, N.Y,
“OH, “ORL S. tones, Pitsbuns Pa.
“OL ct Grarsan, New Worcester, Mass.
“Wo Samuel WH. Holland, Cincinnati, O.

Ader a AUT and carl examination of atl che
locations presented, Port de Pain, datiewad ta be
the best, has boon selevtad as the destination af fhe
Regiments itis sitmated on the northwestern east,
Is an open seaport, having a gned barber, numer
ons landing plaees along the cvast, is within a short
‘distance by lund, of Port Mato and (ape Hartian,
with easy and expeditions communication by wa-
ter with St Mark. Portan-Prines, Mingeadne,
Aquin, and all: other plaves along the east. Tt is
the Hearst seaport ty New York ot Boston, posses:
sip the stortest pode to citer of these eities, and
having the advan of the quickest passa, will

grady  cacilitate: secial attd couttuencial titer.
mse, (he sale and shipment of atl kinds of
prdues, especially tig and che itpertarion

of avads, stuck, ad machinery, at cheaper nates,
cand with lower daw. Te Passesses with dewinie

rand Sto Marky the mast healthy, agoealto,
cand: salutviaus climaw in the whale Island.
Phe surrounding plain’ is exeeatingly rieh,

j Varind, ard tertile, producing in abundance ard of
ithe fest quality, every veevtable, frig, and dow.
cer ac the Copies, while the neighboring hills and
Monntains fem wh hove plants for porinery and
mcdivine, maven woedds Gor Nernitary, wrarntackiies,
baiting, and srnaments, WHY inexhaustible stuys
aoe the vichest minerals atu metals, “The Depart-
Smencet the Novghwest is chink’ poophat and many
pa the large land propeictors desi ty ume
“terms of any Mind with emtcrts. Lars lots ot
anvand can be ablained upon very varable on.
ditions, Twelve thousand: acres) are now fn the
wnarket, Paix. with all these Tmportant advanta-
vs, prysents Hnddeetents to emigrants and toy em:
cigvation Nour the Middle, Baste and Western
States, ond the Qaaaitag, superior to those present
ed by any other portion of ‘Ne Island,

The Regiment will sail dum New York or Phila-
delphia dor Dertde Pax, as scott as: the ongania-
: Hon is ready to move, and the Genel Agent has
Madd hinselt to poovide che vert best aawimime-
dattots tov it,

Two hindi able bodied rornits ane wanted oy
/(Qupauy AL Sixteen aeves: of lad will be gan
AMIOAE EO every anarricd yi, atid six Actes £0 ove:
ry strgle man Donen ar assoctations deahurs of
Feomecting themyelues weit the Reghwent will
[ite ise thts fmonediately, statis age, oowapa-
‘tion, number, Se, Se,
| Joanne, Bestia,

Box No. BAP Havisbang, Nv.

Che J

Jine and Dal

fa

YEAR AUMBER, 9.

BOSTON :

THURSDAY,

FEBRUARY 27, 1862.

ene eae ee ae aan ee re

BY CARLES SaNUSTIR

Allmy mind has satin state,
Pond ring on the deaihicss Sour:
Waatmust be the perfect, Where,

When the acem is so creat!

Gall [ra'lin spizit dows,
Low as Persian to the sun
Al wy senses. one Dy one,
Iu the stream of Trouthi must drown,

Like a wai
Ever woking for tae morn
That will vetimerpres Thee.

Ooeninz my Dlinded eves,
3 have strove to iowR Within,
bued in clouds of deaths ant sin,

s wher I dared to mee.

Could Dirace one spirit’s thn,
Track itty its tinal zoat, .
Krow thar“ spirit’ meant "the soal,

adierv:
and whence art thou?
rib [ taww,

Gol hath sealed?
$24 mos

Dp on deep of my

Ask th

The Telrnat

The Line Table.
THE VENDETTA.

BT BALZAC,

TUORTISTED YAK cast NDMAIR.]

i ro va «

TORI TOON STO re tives fie wird 6 weaee

Be viparte ors

peated apon as pile of
fron, Fontainblean here,

fe and Ginn

bg “hy Vine 4 §:
Ol ae docand we nave polos tar
.- ,
tealie

CLOUT ET
4

, ven honded hia puree to Ds
att wated tira te call and vee
thay. for the partes of deviving
his family. The

e matits G- tate, ite Capoten,

tithe $55 Geet
metnod th pinvide for
rahit Peatnoe
woh ented y
furtabiz an Paris. ;

Pirie jours ela peed between Me aroval

of thes Binee:

at

“Gat

. ; '
1, fatly at Pociv, and the fal
nheh caoald not hd
nthnat tne rental of thre

: aches, ve
leming ahient ae

beet ReRTITE) nbs
eer, %

Berna, ont of nip satet de Cnniched ar.
Neto, Geet concecied the ites of opening i
ataliy for goany femaica abo misned te lake
; Forty goats OF ae, in:

Jeasteia it fa mine ,
fer sjee-
'y }

feta tie manners, and entire

repre
artes ti tie att, he had maeriod, from affes
Hon the daughter of a General, in Hirniterd

ercerpatances AY fire others anergy |
nied hele daavhters, thoncedzes, te the pro:
feesne a orize 7 hat omben they heename aedl
zabiednd ae te tie principles, andl were nate :
Fined) Of the care cabin has teak bo seri:
thelr cantidenen, they cent thers alone, :
Saye tht printer's Gaetan be aeee ph as
zeotaps, tng gong ladies be longing id
acny, of tied foniPes, in order te wzoid
AN] FOOPHIMS if regan th the comperition
af tne hfe be take
grey fiche abe aiehed to beeen netiats
and ember ib nent hate heen necessary
pre contain beseans, without ahich otal
Sneeneibly,

thas, egen pefused

in pounbing canned be atbained
his peradentec
he initiated bis prog
ar, bye, confidence ahi ties ranthers tables.
talocd that there daughters were mecorinted |
with abl educated qoung females ont, aod ,
the safetg abich the charter, manners, and
warsage of Hae: aetict gaarintecd, pace bien
ah eecedlent repabstiote in fashionable etpedes,
Ifo yey gith manifested a drciee ta learn
promting or devning, aol fier rnother necked
aebsiete Mend hice tn ee ite, a Ain ines
riakin rey

Yee vin Pyerrfare been, mith mel hy

a a ‘
fonda ponting. a specialty, se Merbaul

adnte the secrets of his

. ’
mae for etinete, Leeny for fuehions, sid Che

A I Ae

108, fee canoe tiene,

acid unter Mervin ans caneidered compe ;

tan Se eehiejes Wyn prvinat ings ah hits Musto,
We ean hs frabeds wbpnienbl, tt ar nopie
tare, MO fein danelern ps his our
Hist Hiner frre, tinnight ANP ast ees seeieteetene

eg noone ta lene

pate resenecees ily thie feet fuenifies tn Paris, bie,

was badegendent, 9 priteiat, tid tnniatained
aity coer Ge Ute cong, various, mids
nines jetatie ad tates, gered Haat Peeoederns ef pine
jor antiitdh cherenctariies wpbiete,

fee bad eceeerrizedd repnglina puree sation, |
tepecte 1H Wes eee Hien OF Hie tnpebenen abet;

Wie grape prance theig seri Wye ete
Drsarseiee tn this eerie t, abil ertonded cer hia
Awalling rene, hud been wntled ape, nk te

ananifesting thelr fre charaeter, formed a

Chat dreaming and regarding

gage comes oer drevcedd ol tate, nd re

“reach that retreat, sacred as a lavem, it was !

Hevessary te mount a starease, leading up
eutof his private apartnents, ‘This studio,
which veeupied the whole upper tloor of the

‘buiiding, presented enormous proportions 5 |

which invariably surprised the inquisitive,
when, after ascending some sixty feet above
ground, they expected to find) the pupils
ranged round the eaves of the House. ‘This
species of gallery was tinely Hghted by im-
tense glazed sashes, bung with those large
green curtains by the aid of which painters
arrange their light. A mass of caricatures,
of heads in outine, executed in colors, or
with the point of a knife, upon the walls,
paimed deep gray, proved, that saving the

ithrence of expression, females have as keen !
A small stove, |

a sense of humor as inales.
with a large pipe, which deseribed a fright-
ful zigzag before reaching the clevated region
of the roof were the unfailing ormmurents of
ths studio. A shelf extended along the
walls, sustained models in plaster huddled
in confusion, and, for the most part, covered
witha light coloed dust. Beneath this shelf,
here and there. suspended by a nail, a head
of Niobe exhibited its deloreas expression, a
Venus siniled. a hand presented itself abrupt-
ly w the view, like that of a beggar demand-

Peanse of such a consultation, but the seeret
Lofthe youug ultras was very soon revealed,
i Amelie rese, took an easel a few steps off
rand removed ita certain distanee from the
aristocratic group, uear toa rough partition
which separated the studio from a gloomy
aatment, in which were kept broken casts,
puotings condemned by the protessor, and
firewood for the winter.

Amelie’s action exeited a murmur of sur
prise, which did not prevent ber, however,
. from completing the removal by rolling has-
tly near to the easel the color-box and stool ;
in short, everything, even a painting of Prad-
hon, which the tardy scholar was copying.
After this coup d'eat, the party on the right
addressed themselves to thir studies in si-
lence, and the party on the lett entered into
alenethy discussion,

“What will Miss Piombo say?” asked a
young girl of Miss Mathilde Roguin, the
inalicious oracle of the first group.

“She is not a girl to talk,” replied Ma-
thilde ; “but fifty years hence, she would re-
{ member this insult asif it had been received
the day before, and would take a cruel re-
venge, She iy a person with whom | would
not care to be on bad terms.”

“The proscription which those young la-

feebly marked, aud her lips were a trifle too
large, yet they impressed. you with that good-
ness Which gives (o strong natures the con-
sciousness of their power. By. a singular
raprice of nature, the charm of her counte-
hance was, in a degree, tissipated by a brow
of marble on which was depicted a fierceness
almost savage, and where her Corsican traits
of character revealed themselves. ‘hat was
the only thing about her which reminded one
of her nativity ; throughout the rest of her
person, simplicity, and tho ease so natural to
Lombard beauties, spread such a charm that
after beholding her it’ was impossible to in-
jure her. She attracted such general admi-
ration that her old futher, as a matter of pru-
dence, was in the habit of accompanying her
as far as the studio. The only fault of this
truly poetic creature sprang from the very
force of such largely developed beauty. She
refused to marry, from love to her father and
nother, perceiving herself necessary tu their
old age. Ter taste for painting had taken
the place of the passions which usually influ-
‘ence females.

“You are very quict today, young ladies,”
i she said, after taking two or three steps in
‘the midst of her companions. ‘Good day,
‘my little Laura,” she added in a soft and af:

ing alms, or some anatomical figure, discolor- ‘ dies exercise towards her, is so much the | fectionate tone, approaching the young girl
ed by smoke, seemed as if recently taken) more unjust,” said another, ‘because day | who was painting at a distance from the rest.

from a coffin; finally, paintings, sketches,
mannikins, frames without pictures, and pic-
tures without frames, contributed to give to
this disordered apartment the appearance of
a studi characterized hy a strange mixture
of ornament and plainness. of poverty and
wealth, of care and negligence.
mense receptacle, where everything seemed
small, even nan himself, reminds one of the
green room of the opera: here are found old
rage,
res, isachines; but, notwithstanding, you
are impressed with a consciousness of design. |
feenins and death are there—Diana or Apol |

lo teside a crane or a skelcton,—beanty and

Heorder,— imagination and reality. —rich |
colors in the background ; and frequently a:
whole drama stlent and motionless What a!
ssinbel of an artist’s brain!

At the moment when this history com. '
mences, a brilliant July snn pilded the stu: |
dio, and two rays traversed its length, des!
eribing large, transparent golden bands, in |
which grains of dust were sparkling, A:
dagen easels lifted their slender points, like |
the in of vessels in a harbor ; and several |
young girls enlivened the scene by the varie- ;
ty of their features and attitudes, and by the

/ oe in

difference of their toilettes. The deep shade |
thrown hy the green serges, arranged to suit |

aloof

ew...
trom her companions, and worked Cheenaity, |

'

their glowing pallets, painting, peaking,
laughing, singing, laying aside restraint, and

rpertarle unknown te men, This one, with
black hate, and beatiful diands, prowl, |
haughty, and capricious, darts her plereing |
lances infliveriminately ; thatone with eb
put eure, and white, deliente: hantds,—-the
Lean iden) of a Freneh virgin poy and |

and aithout reserye, tives her real tif ano. :
ther is theughtfal, melanechely, and pale;
Honcine her head Vike a falling flower; her

tall, indolent, |

pectin ithe

tealthily the:

neghtor, onthe ecntrary,
with tong, hack, Hyuid ey

head of Antineiie

Jn their midet, fall of spirit
mnatic callies, i one whe spies Chem all ont
aba ingle glance, and qukes them laugh;
her foes, to onlnated not ta be handsome, |
She commands |

and epigrain |
: |

hein da eantinaal metion
the first rranpe of scholar, whe campriee
the merebant, the banker, sad the votary's
dauolters ; all rieh, but experiencing all he
iaperceptible, though eating diednin whieh
the other Fong prrons hedeangeinye In thes
arlnerary, heyy upen ther ‘Sheen Ded tres
headed) bey the anghter afin pentionnn teher
ter thes Kine, a Little creatine, ase Foudied ne
she gain, and pron of having 1 father who
halls an officer ah cant; shir wiehieg: be ny
por to understand the observations of thes

raetog, seb copneay 6 cae pane bey contessrnd to nt

tend te thee studies, wees an opern ylage, ab

ryests her eotnpormiens Ve epoetehs low
this seca) grip splendid figures
Hite notices sieeplicity in Meir comers
Although Sheir postures were elegant, and
thei neverments peraeefil, there yas on yet
of frankness in Unedie moniers, readily dent
ing Hunt they belonged ton sphere in whieh,
aban candy period, character in avaedodt ey
comentionnbtior, and where feeling in des
traged, ond celfichness tlegely vad hy the
Cabave af sactal enjogients Whee Hei ast
© sepbingee vows Ceniplete, there were to hin
feupal sinenge the cobbeetion of ebhilddikay fe
“nnle Weds, virgins enchluntingly inparent,
and fentares aheen slipitly parted lige,
myeathed with oo roniden cane, heban geal feet)
Tat ponrly abitenece At curhe se ntrnent Ue
chydhinn hid nat cereanble a cegsyelio, baton
serenags af snygedss cag hed Npon uN fond in Nie
sky
Pe aes nearly aid hag, ond Meryl tnt not

gh nude Whe repyeorrnce Mon enti liga

Hera@rebending Ibe poet, be dud been engengedd, Nie perentir pet voiyeal with

Cah eee Hinenes, ten se et veebben ards dy bere assed aefeers
more, wid abere he arin fittelsinge o pletare
‘far Che eehihition,  Kiaddenty, Misa Arantin
Virion, ender af the apldocpabie pouty ie
thin file wecunbdy, entered inte a bei
cagfersnen ade tee nedliher, dueiige vbieh
not a wie could tin frend sacantarege WNaee goss

biedin pereaipy,
i hee faenker quorty, wetetetalperd, beste at

Junk ntae, seth onddenyareed te Aid oat Wen and although the corer of lio month worn eieplelon ; mermyey, pela

This im:

elded armor, fracments of costly fab- |

‘
|
1
‘ i}
i
|
|

sel Nel y- | '
the nage abality aith which bike features aere to be eeen | Tat there waa charactor of thor favorite pupil, whe Foor aniseed

_ before yesterday Miss Ginevra was very sad ;
‘ her father, they say, has resigned his posi-
tion. This, therefore, will be adding to her
| misfortune, whilst she was very kind to those
young ladies during the Hundred Days.
Did she ever say a word to wound their feel-
ings! On the contrary, she avoided any re-
ference to political affairs. But we ultras
~ appear to be actuated more by jealousy than
~ by party spirit.”
' 7 want to go and ect the easel of Miss
Piombo, and place it beside mine,” said Ma-
thikle Regain.

She rose, but a reflection made her. sit
down again, “With a disposition like that
of Miss Ginevra,”’ said she, “it is impossible
to foresee how one’s politeness would: be re-
ceived; let us await the result.”

“Aecolal” sail the languishing young
girl, with black eyes.

In fact, the noise of the footsteps of a per-
son ascending the staircase, resounded thro’
the room; the exclamation, Here she is!”
passed from mouth to mouth, and perfect si-
lence reigned through the studio.

To understand the importaneo of the os-
tracism exercised by Amelie Thirion, it is
necessary to add that this scene occurred to-
wards the end of July, 1815.

The second return of the Bourbons had

ithe requirements of cach easel, produced a| just disturbed many friendships which had
'nultitade of contrasts and striking effects of | withstood the efect of the first restoration,
light and shade. This group formed a finer | At this period, families, nearly all divided in
4 pletnre than any painting in the studio, A | opinions, renewed many of those deplorable
fair young girl, sinply dressed, kept

BCE

ete

es which sully the history of every coun-
| en Dr a ocd Bee -

en ne

Webs |

discourse,

Ginevra Piombo idolized Napoleon ; how
could she bate him’? ‘Phe Manperor was the
countryman and benefactor of her father.
Baron Piombo was one of those servants: of
Napoleon who had most efficiently codperated
for his return from Elba. Ineapable of re

i nonneing his politieul fatth, proud even to

Nn *, .

Piombo remain-
(“

‘te

confesa it, the oll Baron di
ed al Paria in the inidst of his enemies,
evra Piombe could therefore the more easily
he placed qimony the number of suspected
perso, inmemieb as sho never dizgnised the
regret whieh the eecond regtoration enused
her family. ‘The only tears whieh perhaps

fies ve support him come: thoughtless, a emilee upon her dips, buogant, rhe had ever rhed, were wrong: from hor Ihy

the danble news of the captivity of Bonaparte,
on the Pellérophon, ane the arrest of Kaabii. |
doyers,

The young, ladies, whe composed the aria.
toeratic groupe belonged to the most elevated
regnatiet families io Paris

“Teowould be diffientt to pive any tea of
the exaggerations of that period, ant oof the
hevor conmeed by the Bonapartistes, Howey
er jnsivnifieant and trifling. the aetion of
Annelic Thirties navy new appear at the time,
Hoyae cin ecpression af very natural liatred,

Ginevra Piombe, one of Servin'n hest
echoliis, oecnpied a position of whieh thers
bad heen a desire to deprive her ever since
he firek entered the shidio s the aristocratic
yioup had imperceptibly sumrounded her,
nd toconet her from a place whieh ian nnn
ner belonged te her war not only doing her
an aingery, bat eninge her a rort of ineenye-
nienee, far aetiate ll have a elinies ia reyridd
fo their position in week iy Sal politiont
atinealyersion tid perhapa tat Tittle to lo
with Phe eondaet of this Little right setag of

the atulio,  Ginevin Piombo, the tort ne

Ecoupliahed of deryin's pupils, waa the object
Inf af ereationnaeel joalonney the nneter profescnn

genoel adimieation for the talents na for the

pine with an exaiiple for atl hia compariaons ;
finolly without muy one's beige nhle tong.
polity the nceomlanny whine Chis sue ""
fon obbined ayer every ate white dapopee eat’ reel
hor, abe oxereierd over thin dille world an
fafhiones almost dike that of Bonaparte aves
his naddions Tho nieturiney of iN alindin
hind, for eoverol days, detenained ipon Hi
coves thieeeye ef rie apienn | Forel vnc toner nee ysl
fal darordtes holt herself atief ton tha Bo.
iportieh Misa SMhinon, therefore, nme sn
Hebd atrale, roukinge lor campaniona secon
pliers of Hee duster, ATteongh Cineven yan
ehacrnby beloved hy fave on dhe of tie soy.
tblater, yal ace ly allot then were ane
Ile tn pohitient eeneoralilp wt denn, Winy
jected, with thot fiet peention fo worner,
that they ought to comin nontial with ane
peel te tyes pine ned
One hog aarival, therefore, Cinewin wae te
nofomnd allepee, OM all the
yritienge pile wh Hye dee Ebel Hines Hed muted
Her yiee’n rtvedion alien thie pialtioal, the
frblect, sad tbe teecnat Nnwly fered Top
ore wa atampor with: an abe of noble.
pedocnen punged genveeres Hit ecoentiebod raveypieted ‘di
eeveeenbecnasgrieees Lergeenert dtl Titellijonen, OF
ieendigt WNpied sutpdenesed devas poealinr toe Clear edetonnet,
Drona wlily cutie Hee dong, hte, het
nya, ied black egelnation, Viabdsnatead ponent |

i*"Lhat bead is very well done! the flesh is a
little too ruddy, but it is admirably drawn.”

Laura, raising her head, regarded Ginevra
with cmotion, and both their countenances
tbeamed with mutual affection. A faint
smile played around the lips of the Italian,
who seemed in a reverie and moved slowly
towards her place, looking carelessly at the
designs on the paintings and saying good
morning to each of the young girls of the
first group, without noticing the unusual cu-
riosity. which her presence excited. Her pre-
oecupation was so great that she placed her-
self ft her cascl, opened her color box, ar-
ranged her brushes, put on her brown sleeves;
adjusted her cascl-frame, scrutinized her

painting and examined her pallet, without
thinking, as it were, what she was doing.
very head in the group of commencers was
turned towards her; and if the young ad-
herents of the camp ‘Thirion did not manifest
their impatienee so openly, their glances were
not the less directed towards Ginevra.

“She does not notico anything,” said
Miss Roguin.

Alt this instant Ginevra roused herself
from the meditation with which she had been
looking at her painting, and turning her
head towards the aristoeritic group, she
measured, at a single glance, the distance
which separated them frora her, but said
nothing. ;

“Shv does not suppose. that any insult
was intended,” said Math “5, “she neither
reddened nor turned p  . How these
wanns Tading: ennnlds avn’ by tfianlansad if

WAkkepe sthsaeuer “Waters seed. 1. i
Sith hor new
position than with the old vay!” Mathildd

Mis.” \

The Ttattan pretended nat to hear, or per-
haps she did not hear; rising abruptly she
walked slowly over tho space roparating the
gloomy apartment from tho studio, and ap-
wared to be examining the sash) whenee the
bi wovecded, giving itso much importance
that An mounted upon a chair lo fasten still
higher the green curtain’ which intercepted
the light. At that height sho reached a vory
small erack in’ the partition: whieh separated
the lumber room from the studio, the real
object of her efforts, for tho glance whieh she
turned in that: direction. ean he ramped
only to that of a oiniser discovering the
trensares oof Aladdin. She eamo down
quickly, returned to her place, adjusted her
minting, pretended (o he dissatistiod with the
ight, drew oa Geble near the pardition en
whieh she placed a chair, sprang lightly
upon this seaflolding and examined the
crevice anew, Sho east Int one look into
the apartment, just then illumined by the
burrowed Hpht whieh penetrated: it, and that
whieh she aaw produced sneha sensation in
hor that whe started,

“Von will titl, Miss Qineyra 1? erie
Laure; and all the young pinky turned to-
watds their imprudent companion who was
lattovinge.

The toar that her com prione world come
near her pave her courape. She regained
hor atronyth and her equilibrinm, aud turning,
lownrds Laura, abe anid inn exeited: voiee,
rocking horaelf upon the chain, Pshaw 2 it is
yek ationger Chan a (Chrome 2" She made
iste fo gemeye the eurtain, eame down,
pushed Inek (he table and the choir ata eon.
nilornble diatinee from the partition, returned
fo her easel and made nome more attempts,
apparently to pet amass of fight whieh puited
hor, Hoy painting oveupied but very: little
af her alfontion, her ebjeet being to pet near
the dhirk wom, nen whieh she plieed her
pelt, ne if ikenited ber, beeide the coor,

Vhon alse diagan to prepare lor pallet ;
keoping, perfectly silent. ti thin position,
whe hoard, very acon, nore diane ly the
alight sound whiek, the day provions, viel an
parently excite) har euringity, anil enused her
youn, imagination to watiler aver a wide
Hold af conjectures, Sho onaily recognized
tho leo nad veyrttar breathing af the eloap-
inp inan whom whe tad jul reen. Her on
rionity woe pratifled beyond her hopes, but
abo fond hovel! lardened with aw immenre
roaponaibilil y. Thiongh the ornek, shoe had
manycht a gtinpen of the fniporial eagle, ant,
Apo neat dlinly raventod, the pure of an
iffieor af The Chard.

Khe utuleratood all: Mervin war eoneentiog
nproreribed min, Naw eho fenverd leat ne
of fey compra phot coe to manmine
four pondinting,, aid alow hear Che brenthin ol
thia unfortunate, or one oselamntion Tle
Hint white fink renebvdl Tor ene ditviiye the
lost losaon. Shoe deta nined do remain tear
Hin thooe, Creting, to her ndiliess te hatthe any
Hntoward event. Tilia batter, thonpht abe,
Hat Pabondd bo dhete to punrd ayotiiat v
foetal oootdont, Phin te tage the poop prieaner
ak the ey of rene catolosaninpe Kueh
wae thay eoored of tie rpepatent Lidiffinnnes af
CHnoven at Gediys dor oneal Heaplaed she
waa kouelly sollte will Halu TE tne
sinnaobobeced Trott tar geratitty: Looe astert val willreout
; tothal thie, ele

was too much predecupied to consider the
cause of her displacement. Nothing is more
mortifying to young girls, as to every one
else, than to have a trick, an insult, or a joke
Jose their effect on account of the indiffer-
cnee inanifested by its object. It scetms that
hatred towards an enemy increases in propor-
tion as he raises himself above us, ‘The con-
duct of Ginevra was a mystery to hey com-
pauions; both her friends and her enemies
were equally surprised; for they accorded
her all possible qualities, except the forgive-
ness of injuries.

Although occasions for the exhibition of
that defect of character were rarely offered to
Ginevra in the occurrences of the studio, yet
the examples which she had been enabled to
give of her vindictive disposition and deter-
mination, had left deep impressions in the
minds of her companions. a
, After many conjectures, Miss Roguin fin-
ished by attributing the silence of the Italian
to a greatness of soul beyond all eulogium;
and her circle, at her instigation, formed the
project of humiliating the aristocracy of the
studio. ,

They suceceded in their attempt by a fire
of sarcasm which lowered the pride of the
right wing; but the arrival of Madame Servin
put a stop to this partisan warfare. With
that shrewdness which always accompanies
malice, Amelie had observed, analyzed and
commented on the remarkable predccupation
which prevented Ginevra from hearing the
politely acrimonious dispute of which she was
the object.

The desire for revenge, which Miss Roguin
and her assoviates excited in Miss Thirion
and her group, had the fatal effect of eaus-
ing these young ultras to seek for the eause
of Ginevra di Piombo’s silence.

The beautiful Italian, therefore, beeame
the centre of observation, and was closely
watched, both by her friends and enemies.
It is very difficult to hide the most trifling
emotion, the slightest feeling, from fifteen
young girls, inquisitive and unoccupied ;
whose misehief and liveliness ask nothing
better than the discovery of a seeret, to con-
trive or bafile an intrigue, and who are capa
blo of giving too many different interpreta
tions to a gesture, a glance, or an expression,
not to be xble to diseover its true meaning.
So Ginevra di Piombo's secret: was in great
danger of discovery. At this moment, the
entrance of Madame Servin caused an inter
ludo in the drama, secretly transpiring in the
bottom of these young hearts, whose senti-
ments, ideas and progress were represented
by phrases almost allegorical, by malicious
glances, by motions and even by silence often
more expressive than speech,
4s soon as Madame Servin entered the
studio, hur eyes were directed towards tho
door near which Ginevra was seated : under
tho present citcumstanees this look was not
unobserved. Tf at first nono of the ceholarg |
paid any ‘attontion to tho cireumstance, yet
afterwards Miss Thirion remembered it, and
accounted to herself for the mingled oxpres-
sion of defiance, fear and mystery betrayed
hy the almost yellowish east of Madame Ser-
vin’s eyes at the moment. “Young ladies,”
sho said, ‘Monsiour Servin will not be able to
be present to-day.” ‘Then she complimented
each young person, reeeiving from all a show:
ev of caresses whieh are conveyed as much by
vaico and look as by gesture,

Very soon she approached Ginevra who
vainly attempted to conceal the wneasiness
which she felt, ‘Phe Ttilian and the painter's
wile gave each other a friendly nod, and both
remained silent, the one paintiiig and the
other looking on. ‘The soldier's breathing
could he easily heard, bat Madame Servin
apparently did not pereeive it; and her dis-
shimulation was so perfeet Chat Ginevra was
tempted to aceuse her of voluntary deathess,
Meanwhile, the unknown moved upon his
vot, and the Halian looked fixedly at) Mad:
ame Servin, who then said, withont the slight-
ext alteration of her countenance: Your
copy sas fine asthe original: if Thad to
choose hetween Chen LT should be very much
embarrassed."

Monsieur Servin has not eontided this. se-
erot tohis wife, thought Ginevra, who, alter
roplying (othe younp woman with a- sweet
amile of ineredulity Timed one of her na-
fional aire ta eoneeal the neisa whieh the
prironer mnipht make,

Teas something: go untisual ta hear the
audios Hala sing, that all the young pitts
looked at her with surprise, Aflerwards,
this eivermetance afforded eorreboration at
the charitable anppositions af lated,

Madaine Servin went away very soon, nnd
the sitting terminated withont any other ve.
enrrenee,

fre be contisten |

¢ mom -

Ta Peash a ohild there is hari in
everything, however innacont | wml ns Ronn
na $t dixeovern the cheat, ib won't sec ain in
anything. ‘That's the vengon deacona’ sons
nolan tir ont well, and preachers’ daugh-
fercare inetd through ow windew. tine:
eonen ithe mvyeotont thing in the world, and
there bomore of H than folks ponerally imap
ine, UP you want nome te (raneplant, don't
apel it de enelopnved of eand, tor it haa only
counterfeit ones: bat inthe pardon of Gath
amt otacnee,  Coerend: innoeenee ia the an
imprisoned lark --open the door, aml it dail
fuvever, The hind that ream the aly avd
the prove auveatrained, knows how lodedye
the fink nit profent itaell, hit the eaged
one, the nioment it loaves ila bars and holte
Holtial, ia pontiend apen hy the fowler or
the vadiave,

(mee?

eseraent oon Mivaaicea. There
mony wha will emia any hantebtp, nike
nny exoytion, hone any aiovdiies, fir (hele
Mole, far avhon they ean never doe ono;
Tt toward thet enemies, they ave antdnd,
imploenblo, mud reemmifil Pho many who
fine Injured then they enn never train |
fig bh choy bnye ne tdndness, tat held ht
i) von henpl, averalin ind nepteet, vu
Citatinnlty requiie a Taylor att avon dis.
Hhtovented virthe Chan (hi foe (6 comments
ite dy be tid fo ene enonies,

ft mem b
Ac rbvie ten Tow aliiye afield tee seit
Ton atari, te neenge plilpwreek.

aye

Clinenie wellora, The tiebtl atevarnet,

“attorney ; two members of the Colonial Leg-

.

| The Palm.

COLORED PEOPLE OF MAURITIUS

To the Editor of The Pine and Palm.
Sir: Assuming that gome of your readers
would be pleased to have a little infor-
mation
their colored brethren in the Mauritivs,
(or Isle of. France,) I take leave to
send you the following facts “which I
have learned from Wm. H. Bernhard, Esq.,
an English gentleman who resided in the
former Island for twenty-five years, and who
was extensively engaged in commerce there.

the colored and white population of these
islands the utmost ‘cordiality prevails ; and
that, although twenty years ago, there. was a
strong prejudice against color, it bas now en-
tirely disappeared, and the two races asi oci-
ate together on a footing of perfect equality.
The Governor of the Island entertains the
colored merchant and planter, or the colored
barrister, attorney, or doctor, at parties at the
Government House; and receives, in turn.
the hospitalities which those citizens extend to
their friends at their respective residences.

Shortly after the emancipation of theslaves,
the British Government established schools
all over the islands for the education of the
emancipated slaves and their children ; and
in those very establishments white boys and
colored boys now study together, and com-
pete for prizes at the Royal College.

Every year two of the most proficient pu-
pils attending those schools are sent to
England to finish their education there, at the
expense of the British Government, for any
profession which they prefer ; and at this time
one of those young gentlemen is one of the
most promising medical students in the
hospitals of London. One result of this
wise system of legislation is, that a great
many of the young colored men become
skilful barristers, doctors, engineers, Ke., Xe.,
so much so, indeed, that when they return to
their native land, the Colonial Government
frequently gives them appointments. Some
of the most eminent colored men in the
Island have been trained in this manner.

The pratique doctor at the Mauritius is a
colored gentleman ; so is the Government

islature are colored ; the mayor of the city Is
colored; the councillors are colored; a
munber of the magistrates of the Seychelle
Islands ave colored; and many of the wealth
est merchauts aro colored; many of the
Government offcials are colored. Colored
jurymen sit in the Supreme and Admiralty
Courts of Justice, —in short colored men take
a more prominent part in the Municipal: Gor-
ernments in the Tsland than the white resi-
dents themselves.

Thery is also'a colored lodge of Er>
Masdiis, Ceatted Le Loge de Paix.) which
numbers upwands of 800 members. Among
them aro many white brethren, —all of whom
work together in the utmost harmony. An-
other lodge, which is the crack lodge, is
called the Triple Esperance. Both work
under the auspices of the Grand Orient of
France trom the first degree up to the thirty-
second ; and when they give balls ot enter
tainments, as Masons sametimes do, they are
generally attended by the most. influential
persons in the ealony. . .
Mr. Bernhard was there at the time of
the emancipation of the slaves, and the scene
which then took place was at once both euri-
ous tnd interesting, As soon as they wer
trea they came pouring into the city in
thousands; every man and woman witha
bundle in their hands or on their heads, and
made thoir way to the Government House,
There they squatted down, saying that the
Governor must tind then with work. Por a
long time a seene of the greatest contusion
prevailed ; but a length thoy were persuaded
to return (o their hemes, and ins the course
ofa few months most of them were at work,
on their own account, whenever they wer
paid tor their labor,

In the Freneh Tsland of Bourbons, (or
Reunion) and in the Seychelles, the free
people of color enjoy the same privileges, an
the same satistnetory state at atlhivs prevails,

Mauts like these, U think, prove better than
arguments that tree colored men ean, and do,
attain to elevated and responsible positions in
sovioty, when any thing like tir play is
shown them by theiy white brethren. Ro-
spootully, wM,

New York, Feb. 8. E869,

ewe t + Se eee
CONFUCTUS, TH CHINESE SAGE,

The works of Conttetus, Che cololrated
Chinese philosopher, about who every ane
hn heart aid of whom se fow wally know
any thing. will probally booome mone timniliae
to the roading: world through “The Chinese
Clnssivg, with a transtation, evifion! and exe:
potion nates wditvd by shana Lege, 1,
., of tho London Missionary Sooietys and
published Isat year in Hour Kong, Tho
work, to be completed iv five volumes, will
vontiin the hooks new reognised as ot the
highest muthority by the Chinese themselves,
They are he Veh. or the book of charms:
the Show, or the book of history; che Shes or
the boule af pootyy ¢ the Le Ke, or Wweont of
vitor s the Chi ‘Pkew, ov springy and autians;
the Tain Yay ar digvated: convergations he
tween Canteiua and bis dixeiplos : Sa Vee,
oy arent learning, commonly atteibited tw
on of hin lizeiptes, the Chang Sn the
dovtrine af the Monee, by the grandson of
Contwiug, aml the werks of | Moneius, whe
Wed G88 ROC OP a these writers,
our tentora have probably only leant af Con:
Moje, Tia rhitasophon every Chinese
whitey apres dn proisin. His grandson anys
ul’ hae:

“Hominy be vomparat to Toaven aid
oath te thed: anpporting and containing, Chote
pverehndowiyy ond our tuintige aT tlie lw
wy be vompored toe the fou reads (tt thoty
ATA preys, al te Che ai a Mon
ty Chote anoonnatve atitediag oo. Gtalk tit
Approlonalin, clear tn avounmont, at die.
roanhing bitelloot and all embraciigr know
daly, te wee ete to mete vile yey
wanton, genermes, hong md ald, te

'

WHOLE NUMBER, 137.

about the elevated position of

From his statement it appears that among |

| maintain 2 firm bold; selfedjusted, grave,
| Dever swerving from the mean, and . cosrect,
i be was fitted to.canmand reyerence.; acton-
; plished, distinctive, cmentrative and search-
‘ing, he was fitted ts exercise: discrimination.
.... Allembracing and vast; he was like
Heaven ; deep and active as a framtain; be
was like the abyss... . .-Therefre bis
fame overspreads the Middle Kingdom, snd
extends to all barbarous tribes. “Wherever
ships and carriages réach, wherever the
strength of man penetrates, wherever the
heavens overshadow and the earth sustains,
wherever the san and moon shine, wherever
frost and dews fall, all who have bicd and
breath unfeignedly honor and love kim.
Hence it is said—He is the equal of
Hédven.”

Confacins died-2.339 years ago, yet his
impress is clearly discernible im Batkesl
ebaracter of the largest empire in Asia, His
philosophy is often condensed into terse prov-
erbs, which are beld im great veneration in
China, if their precepts are no: always obeyed.
He says: ‘To see what is right and not 10
do it, is cowardice.” He says of know!
edge: ‘When you know a thing, to bold
that you know it, and when you do not know
a thing, to aliow that you do not know it—
this is knowledge.” His version of the
Golden Rule, was : ‘What would not wish
men to do to me, I also wish not to do to
them,” but he thought chat to feel thus bor-
estly, required a degree of virtue almcet un-
attainable. Of death, he tells this parable :

“Ke Loo asked about serving the spirits
of the dead. The master said, ‘While you
, are not able to serve men, how can you serve
their spirits 7” Ke Loo added, *I venture to
ask about death.” He was answered. ‘While
you do not know life, how can you know
about death ? ”

Here is the very idea in the
stanza of Addison's celebrated and familiar
hymn :

“What though in solemn silence all,” Ee.

_ “The master said: ‘I would prefer not
speaking.”

Tsze-Kung mid : ‘If you, master. do not.
speak, what shall we, your disciples, hare to
record 2”

The master said: ‘Toes Heaven speak?
The four seasons pursue their courses. and all
things are continually being preduced ; bat
does Heaven sry any thing?”

As yet, only the first volume of Dr.
Legge's bock has been published, and wher
the series is complete, we shall, for almost
the first time, really learn something about
Chinese literature.

Stray Leaves.
! Snow.
Oh! the snow the beautiftl seer,
‘Over the houbetope, over ate stheek
Over the heads of the people yor meet, -

Dancing,

Flirting,
Skimming along;

Reantiqul snow! it can do no wrong,

Flying to kiss a fair lady’s creek,
Ctinzing to lips in a troticksanre freak,

Beanti{al snow thom che Roarer adore,
Pur as an angel, genth as fore!

Oh! the snow, the beautifil snow,
Now the tlakes gather and fangh at cher gel
Whirling about in its maddening faa,
It plays in its glee with every one,
Chasing,
Lanching,
Rurrving ty:
Tt Hyrhts on the frog, and tt sparkles the ere!
And oven the dors, with a dark aint a Doan,
Snap at the crystals that aldy around;
The sown is alivy, and its heart ina show;
To welcome the comirg of deautiml snow!

Vow vo Waive por a Newsraresn.—As a
general rule, short pies ave the bust liked,
A gentleman ina bank once told us when
we asked him to suboorite for a certain
quarterly reviews Read a Reviow f why T
never wad anything longer than a telographie
despateh, But Lwill take it and: somd it t0
my brother, who is a mitnister in the
eotatey,” The public like a short antide
when it is a condensation,
This intrduees a second Mea. Av srtivle
to be printed should absolutely have same-
thing in iG Ut pruthsond argent, it should
be conelusive; if pathetic, 1 should moisten
the eves: if av ancedote, it should have a
sharp point sit phitooyphy, TE shoul gv te
the primitive wok if prretionl, it should go
like an arrow to its work : if spiritual,
should awe the soul that reads it

Tar dea —The jug iss most singular
utensil, A pail, tmbler, or deomnter, oan
be rinsed, and you ean aatist) yourselt by
optical prot, that itis clea: but the ny
has buts hole in the top. and the interior ts
all darkness. Nv eye ponetates it, no band
moves the surkee, You ean cletn it only by
putting in water. shaking Th wp. smd pouring
tone. Ut the water eames out clowa, you
judge yor have stteoweded: fn clewninyy the
J. and efee ovina, Hone, the fiye is Tike
the human heart No aiartal on ever look
into its reesses, and you can any frdge of
its purity, by what comes Chom it

Waar igs Nev. We neal bie ove
dwellings more ventilation and less heat) we
Hoe Mote outdoor exerelso, mare autlight,
mon manty, atiletio, and rade gparta swe
need move amusentents, Wore holidays, new
Civlic, awl noisy, buisterus mirth, Que ine
Grats need better nourishment than calortase
anthers cate funish, puree milk: than distit
loving eat mamidketire our children need
mors rornpltyg atid Tose attady, Our tren
nwod more quiet, and eartion wlaxation feat
the labors of Lith, Al aven, both ywung sted
abd, nowd Lose wedietie and mony good oot:
als Seteanine diverter,

wd unt at the Doak weather sonds tte into
aie hommes, ard anakns ue thank Gor the
warmth and akolter we lately rlighbsl eo
separations, annoys Colt iafiimty, will
mvtiil ite back tity hese etehtet sayings, and
will make. wwe gladly robwat hiby the truth of
the Coapol-ar Goxpet whioh has bawyht lift
amt iimartality to Tight, wind plane over
aaatinisl rations death lo Saviour, an eternal
Gad.

~Woetey hace indddle wat, Toavet
koope muita, the aaith bation—veves ennatle
tho wane.

2 Aaple who Uke eo Ww to talk theiy
ited, about eometiner typ donned helt

wena Hite tee sgonvedan Ciyborennen y canpuinbadyss,

ened clenpey thin thay ave,

onergetto, Mua nett ornebareding, he wea Wtted to

talk.

MA ae

eae

‘

ROSTON: THURSDAY, FEB. 27,1862.

$2 Per Ayscm.-—-We have tried the plan
of putting the paper at $1 per annum, for
four months, and have come to the conclu-
sion that it will not pav. On and after the
first of March, the price of the paper will be
$2 per annum, or four cents each. Clubs
of twenty, $20.

At the urgent recommendation of our
Agents, we also reduce the price of adver:
tisements to five cents a line, each insertion.
No reluetion from these rates will be made
in any case.

CIVILIZATION.

Gaizo:, in bis Histery of Civilization in

Europe, Sys:

“Civilization is a kind of ocean, which
eonstituzes the wealth ofa pecple ; and in
whse becom all the elements of popular life,
all the forces of its existence.are mingled. This

lands of the Caribbean, and on the adjacent
continent, but which shall penetrate to the
sources of the Niger and make tho slopes of
the Kong reflect the light of civilization beam-
ing fromthe mountain tops of Hayti and
flooding her plains.

We apprehend, that, after philanthropy
shall have broken the chains of the oppressed,
after enlightened public sentiment may have
repudiated the idea that man can have pro-
perty in man, the black man will still be con-
sidered an idea in this, albeit, his native
land, will still have his faculties dwarfed
and his soul withered by the accursed breath
of prejudice against color ; and that the work
of his elevation will still remain to be accom-
plished by his own separate effort. The ten-
denev of public sentiment and public action
towanl him will be to make him feel the
more keenly the anomaly of his position and
the injustice of bistreatment. The influence
of his surroundings will tend more and more
to weaken his self-respect, to spread discord
and dissension among his ranks, and to in-
ercase his desire for that prestige, the want of
which disqualifies him from an equal recog-
nition by the dominant race. Away, then,
men and brethren, with those illusory dreams,
which are only beguiling you to deeper de-
gradation: Shake off your indecision and
bring whatever of intelligence, industry, and
aspiration you may have to the aid of civili-

is so rue that facts, which in their nature!
ary: fatal, detestable. which weigh painfully :
upon a paople, despotism and anarchy, for |
instance, if they have constituted anything to |
eivilaztion. if they have caused it to take a)
long stride, then, up toa certain point, we |
exease them. we parden their wroags, their !
wiekel character; so that in every place |
where civilization and the results which cn-:
rich i are appreciated. ong is tempted to for-
geribe price which it has cost.”

irae of the system of
. if in coming time, it may |
7 to nave been instramental, though in- |
niinvolantarily, in contribating to,
Pthe African race. The sup-,
issible, butits:

action of forces '

the contro) of the

6 THANE

whabitg,

Ame

can Euciety pre

wale it mits our in-

tes we Tite, Increases our temptations

shave, by our ebnorinal csndi-

LaLa We have b srerely suffered from
iR8 hee yRereyes.

There b int the differenc: Letwonn us and

the whoa, in regard wy wrdal erquirement,
thas thers js eawonn a ean and @ parrot in

reepers, A language. In the one it ie the re-
press ative of thought; inthe other, it ix on-
Mp an iaitation of wand. Our main objec
vaitinned omtect of the two races

ie Maat it tends te prevent our proper devel

tion ay the

opnent, |
Pres wits Watural .

- + cA h 4

. “ reed . . Saye * . .
tet apd, AWA by wanpelling ua vs live an Yas voring without merc
and other Republicans for Antishivery opin-

life,

Teo active Vo have just referred wo, rays,

BP AL

+e

it antee

Bet Fite
Yh Wea of progress, of development,
eect i ne i be the fundamental idea con
tained on the nord cinilization, What ia!
prgpest mba i developanentt thin ix the
er etd Suey, “Vie egmology of the word |
appeate gis a ear aul catisfartory an-
wer jt eaye, Cat it ik the perfecting of civil
fifte, Seas Ni ierpntat uf PANG, in the pre
joe resee of the nord, the relations of sen

”»

tt paras

te Cathy ALES,
Vating thin Acfinitivn axa ptarting print,
tie lear that the oanditions abich Ameren

Haney sinyet apr ucare unfavorable ty
tar prngues, wetar development, or in other
winds, eimeciydiaton. Vor, by excluding
te Seett 1s Sull prartiesgrtion in Uae relations of
cond Jifr

“AY, i potrente os frean jarferting the ane,

Ny degrading tar peaition ite ett:

at derngiiy iG NEE

Nees. fae necessity far change of Meee |
nero, A pratieable, rs resnnyel from |
thee iiflucnen,

Ohig cdatd peat fap alienating ne repay
tian bean a fim deli f that ons essa) inte
neaity ean neren bes genvered, ere sheauyl
the prrnth and develyancut of oar salutes
ander the stiinasun of vitalising feapess Vay bie
Sean arly in Mie dischiege of ur scverul ds
ties sod rations na integsal clemunta od 1
gangonel waity, weiedg abil can rsvad
mer, enentage effort, etinteluta serabition,
yrity crerg laudable inpotlee, ond pian an
gw fecting of nity, the wink of wail organi
Hey, tbe beets ots ford that ned andy doer
iets aberde need Mie: ecaiegeles, beak aes curved de,
eagprdally, wad thn iafaenes of a Uieising,
id qandent yoveruticnt uf ealared men, $a
gall y Nowle, Vemnike us realias oun pos
ma hatilesion, and ty pias isan ndecniite
Wa

mith We inledeinules cur peuple ails nied

iris Uy achiculs cunalyes Tran a

feabng cabvan liek wine nnd bigheat play
WANDS tor yadinata, hy Pn tin
bye ges8 cried g Af se bith rier Meaepioed por pile,
wl Wr gress Nye neg for Nee fab elegution
Ath nbole Atriean sure, theeaugh Hic ey
foothe tes we tien of perples af ade avn bland

Dierurding Ven medtyen, wud rein when
is tugyertions uf tnaperedil y med pe Nshayeent, be
whieh the feeputiag wal portage field ut tes
whl, wabengaies, Ad indurtey, in es balan
A Hays, mys where we day sngapoeen wer
Wel vagy chin, plaviens Wen of sack pepanern
that, it Moycacy edaguded he Annas acorn in
Whee aildeg geen, Wind, iloaph hitfen hy Nhs
fhary wergeaitea whind bein neal slvgary'p
Sey fend, Weg ming entertain We ted Neu.
Vie wots conden that santerinl weolth nnd
ayy iernd ined cami Penn vigntiin
preee iea Me onler rien npentel up ty uM
Hough the dfn of the Muytion Cavan
ett Neh wes decwinns bee ives ihe gibi yy aie
mill someone ihe beieiagle ued, dene She tne bes

| partisan managers to read the admiraile re-
tab to, in the course: of his addrecs at the New

Subjoined i an extrael that wmet be preatly

enjoyed by Post te Co.

gene, his opinions on plavery are no per

aves ae Glin elopted for the abolition of sla.

zation, progress, and the elevation of our race,

by a development of the resources, and by

strengthening the defences of that cradle of

African Independence, the Island of Hayti.
L.

Washington’s Birth day was celebra-
ted not only in the chief cities, but in almost

every town and village, in the Union. His
Farewell Address was every where read ; the
general joy which pervaded all classes, was
materially increased by the hilarity growing
wat of the glorious success which of Jate has
crowned the efforts of our Jand and water
forces to conquer the implacable enemy who
has aimed, with almost deadly certainty, a
blow at that Country of which Washington is
rightly esteemed the Father.

No where were the public demonstrations
so cffectually carricd out as in the city of
New York; where various assemblages of
citizens gathered together and listened to ad-
dre

and speeches. Among the most dis-
tinguished personages who officiated on this
oasion, was the eminent historian, George
Bancroft, Exq., who in times past figured
largely in the front rank of Democracy, and
probably etill claims to belong to that party,
unless his plainness of speech on the leading
topics of the day, hay caused him to be read
out of its ranks, No man living has enjoyed
greater opportunities and facilities for form:
ing a correct judgment of the sentiments and
actions of the statesmen and other Jeaders
during the infancy of this nation, than Mr.
Bancroft, and it must be peculiarly refresh.
ing to the eonductors of the Boston Post, the
N.Y. Express, the Journal of Commorce,

8A nrann nonden sabe gen oantianntes Le
een Yprteten see aeeuny aus

» Buwner, Wilson,

or

iona expressed in the ling of their duty, it
muel, we nay, be peculiarly refreshing to such

inarka made by the eminent gentleman allud-

York Corporation celebration on the 22d int.

“The views of Washington with reyard to
the lave trade: commend themsclves to your
approbation after the laps of nearly vinety

ale wad wo clea that af they boul been follow.
ed they would have established poaee among
ua fornver, On the [th of Aqwil, W7#G, din
arote ta Wobork Monin) There ta net aiaan
living who wishen anore rineerely than [de

Shin was his feed opinions ro that
in the following month he dechued to Lalay-
els: Uy deyrenn the abolition of slavery
conainly might, nnd assncedly ought ta be
effected and that, too, hy depialative authori
ty’ On the th of Hopteanber of the same
gets bis weeded Wie rerclation never to pute
acer nother elave by pushin,’ adding, ‘it
briny sanong ny first vrlien to reg eons plan
aifepted by which wlavery in thin country may
be whelished by bow.

In conformity with there views, the old
confederation af the Gaited Bentes, at a tae
when Wis convention for framing our consti
Latino yen ine eeccin, ley te Hhaeei vobn,
prohibited aluverg forever inal the territory
Hid then belonged to the Paited Pater s wn
anaat the very Ure seta of Washington an
Prestlent, yous to npprove wn bivy by whieh
Het aadinnnece ight teontinns ta haga fall
affiert.!

On the Gthof Moy, POU, te the iidet of
his encase Merosideat, bo deviaed a plan fin
Hoa sue of Dende in Western Virginia sue
Weetarn Penonylvanin, wad after jovi, oth
we renee For hin pattpase, be wuld ‘Tdinve
ficther rantive vlich rmoken pi usnenetly
whl for the necenplicliet Of Nts trinagees 5
ih is, badenel, vores pager tal Caen all thes vost,
mney; be Aherale i certian apron af pros
erty velo Po pannoce, vary repugeusntly te iy
cnn Seadinges |

Arid in Seon ee Cire saith atten
aed Moat Marewol) Addreen tee vlieh ye thi
Any hove Setenal, Jor Set ddnaeed tl juntiftedd in
meee Me Fearne bile hupea ;

’
“ONY.

Jun

for thee Ve
Nees dee thieves yrenebas CNet big ie ie cay
ties Vasey Sit Mare ydaned ead Virginia toss
Huseaes Vanya feos Uheee grrcebeal seladitians of player y,
TT
; ; ; '

Foul te Sia rented te pl ayidenien
which ban catublinted Tilnity an the rule of
mur eauuleg heqond the pri Ay fae
Vrapotes,

Hore pager dt Eyer nas whe dealiul ter pinot
pre cr raed bitr Legal adtayethion te nya the
ad beden which lin tolean place, teuating, the
waeialy by degrees verted hve gearhead itaell
aan ly Hea covvde Dentetes teenage ated Chee vip.
Hae ated onelation af tue enenmendiy, Wat
wlivery hive forced capone se Chas isin, weed Jrava
Ditto cape Ate dani ter ntele a deadly blag at
dete tonctanien nade gieape, TE Tes nyerweed i
elf e deaprnte nnd delved oneny ofa
maNenil Vfe, efor anlty soe ce ceqaalilin, al

Viessveseifore wud LU tasteery yoort th Henge af it

fatatesman who would consent to the introdue-
tion ofthat clement of weakhess and division
into any now territory, or the admission of an-
-other slave State into the Union. Lot’ us
hope rather that the prediction of Washington
will prove true, and that Virginia and Mary-
‘land will soon take their places as free States
by the side of Pennsylvania and Ohio.
Finally, the poople of the United States
must this day derive from the example of
Washington a lesson of perseverance. We
have been foreed into a strife from) whieh
there has been no safe eseape but by the man-

ifestation of an immense superiority of
strength, ‘The ages that. are to come will

hold a close and severe reckoning with the
men in power today on the methods which
they may adopt for solving the question he-
fore them. In the present state of things the
worst rashness is that which yields to com-
promise from the feverishness of impatience.
All the wise and good of the world have their
eyes upon us, All civilized nations are wait-
ing to see if we shall have the courage to
make it manifest that freedom is the anima-
ting principle of our constitution—and_ the
life of the nation. But here, too, on this
day we have only to read the counsels of
Washington. When by his will he left swords
to his nephews, he wrote—'These swords
are accompanied with the injunction not to un-
sheath them for the purpose of shedding blood,
except it be for self-defence, or in defence of
their country or its rights ; and in the latter
case to keep them unsheathed, and prefer
falling with them in their hands to the relin-
quishinent thereof.’

The President of the United States has
charged us this day to meet and take coun-
sel from the Farewell Address of Washington.
We charge him in return, by his oath of office,
by his pledges to the country, by the blood
that has been expended—by the security of
this generation, by the hopes of the next, by
his desire to stand well with mankind and to
be remembered in honor by future genera-
tions—to take to his heart this injunction of
Washington,

The Richmond Whig seems to hold
in utter contempt the Union Army, and has
not the least apprchension as to the result of
any conflict hetween it and the rehel forees,
provided the former will engage in an open
fight, fair, and above board, which it thinks
quite unlikely to oceur. But it entertains
misgivings in regard to the naval expeditions,

it being put to its trumps in vain conjectures
as to their purposes and destination; and
as regards the ‘‘Buruside piratical’? concern,
evidently with an ill-concealed anxiety, in-
quired — Where is it to strike us? What
portion of our sea-board is to be polluted by
the foot of such a detested foe’? Tt ac.
knowledges that our Navy is of some worth,
notwithstandiag the Army is utterly con-
“The

only successes of the Yankees have been ac-

temptible, indeed, bencath contempt.
complished by their Navy.  Tlatteras and
Port Royal fell through its ageney, and but
for it, Fortress Monroe and Newport News
would he ours.” It further declares, “7 we
were defeated at Port Royal, we learnt a les-
gon, and must profit by it.” 24 mind you,
reater ; for the Whig only speuks hypotheti-
cally ; from whieh it would seom to be quite
questionable by whom tho victory was gained;
although, from the best information  attaina-
ble, the Union forces are supppsed to be in

full possession of that placo, and the region
round abouts whonee the Now Yorkers have
received, or labor under tho strange halluei-
nation of having received, sundry shipments
of colton, from whieh actual or imaginary
sheets, shirts, and other useful articles of
wearing apparel are about: being manulie-
tured,

Our Kielinond friend, towards the close of
his ceanarks, aroun for a moment to a
realizing eenes’ of the unplemunt predicament
inte whieh Robeldom his projected itiell, and
with bin nll thingnt not having become new,
AHL) clinging: to the oll notion that dfsere-
fron in the better partoof valor," tho fallow.
ing, precautionary wlleranes, hy way of yu
rorntion, tt euiitted:

eWo net not be too prone do under-rate
the prowent of the enemy, and haweyer con
fident wootiny beef mec in on Coie tilt,
ho in exhibiting: adotermination ad indietey
woulhy of a hetter enue; wud theapele line
temy ie net eompoml of the rane aeeterial
iit Gis, Hor nre Che note iadivicanlly netunted
hy reel natives fo fiyelit, yet hie will allonipt
AN that mene nibition and aereitenn reyenyre
eng paomipl.”

Th nardlophohia ReCHIA coulaptoun, sl
His Hielunond Feminer ie aatkeriap under n
revere attnek: of ih, aw: adeo the prope poner
ly jo that ection of the GU Donsinion, an
Hy followlag editor inl porngraph annuistaba
Ily shown:

"Prom the valinnt Bonntor, dawn do the
Hii ceosmeleoen, the quaention an

fone to Telit ia, whether the enemy

wie dikely to ponte, with their guahoate,
Hes Haase gene ten 1 4

(meme

Mach anrprie ie nanifiated by nny

every

Dinieniata at whit in looked upon nr eool je
pudence, and inportinenes, an the part of
(Son Masel toe spe inge of tha beeline
auceods of the Confederate aria’ whidet id
view Gen Cirant Hint cheatin compel
"ey ties

Chivelrone Fone’! of snerensler prapenod

tiageeneena and oan

Jrion evecaspal

'

V4od escnee Dovel ey dedenanbes tones Vocdadoned Chee Vinee:
Hey avddontly ‘elo net talus the prota Aen)
wither the paper, by mend of whieh they
could he ituly posted, and thar net betiny
the Uprmaice whorawith they aaa veiled
Hy refirenea te the colin af the (obianel
Magione Mol of Tyht world bo abi
ltedtonte ti the

iran af Ue Pt nat, be piven ai aout

apo theis obtieanterl

af the bittiiaat edetury gusned by the Con
fedorate coma Kink Donel, Chan Played,
sn enniod Valgaeddon, Leeda dn commend. Che
Hint, weer anes Geode, Ueto sofas loess, tena
win Forge with Coe prosmtont pratantey by
Hivsda Fevsnagor, weties cuspotarceed HOU por tuennnennae need
the plone of ctilny. Me onenny Cthe
Hadoniatiny wore finally didven feane Hie tabl
PLOT CRD Me LLU RT LC tt) ec Rs ZEUS
the Clan fordneadod Tied, bo Sa toct anal wend,
whieh GI Phe Aagetron Ain cenliedin
Mar ver Habedes selntecnasapl of ide oplenelicl aatlinty,

Has adetatleat ayia, Wo nant fey: aqenlad dow

patch, as they should have been, to com-
mander Floyd, who had a very sudden and
unexpected call to parts unknown, must
prove very rofreshing, indeed highly ex-
hilarating to this noble, whole-souled man :

“This splendid featof arms and glorious
victory to our cause will send a thrill of joy
over the whole Confederacy ! It comes at the
right place and at the right time! All honor
to the brave officers and soldier: who have
shed such lustre upon our arms, and added
such prestige to our flag! We shall delight
to publish the full details when they shall
reach us. What farther we are to expect on
the same grounds we know not. Perhaps
before this issue goes to press the telegraph
will tell, The Cumberland river affords the
enemy great’ facility for bringing up rein-
forcements from their point d’apput at
Padueah, at the mouth of the Tennessee.
Our own commanders are not beyond the
means of similar support. We trust there-
fore that the stand so brilliantly commenced
we shall be able to make permanent, and to
roll back the tide of invasion.”

It was rumored, some weeks since,
that an insurrection had broken out in
Mississippi, and a large quantity of property
been destroyed—amounting on one single
estate to $150,000. Subsequently a similar
rumor prevailed in regard to South Carolina,
which proved foundationless. Numerous re-
ports of the like kind undoubtedly will con-
tinue to prevail. Indeed every unfortunate
occurence at the South, more especially fires,
will at once be pronounced by Pro-Slavery
defenders and advocates, as the vengeful
work of slaves; having reason to apprehend
such retribution, nay, more severe, may be
meted out to the taskmasters, by some of the
oppressed.

Tlie Charleston conflagration was, by this
class, at once attributed to the blacks; and
column after column of anathemas was
hurled at them, and their inhuman conduct
denouneed in unmeasured terms. The
property-owners became convineed and an-
nounced that the destruction was not caused
by any slave incendiaries. Jurther, they
declared that no class worked more promptly,
steadily, and faithfully, to arrest the progress
of the flames, and save property from de-
struction than the slaves; not only the men,
but the women and children vieing with one
another in their efforts. ‘Thus showing, as
we have always contended would be the case,
the kindlier feelings of their nature will pre-
dominate, exeepting under the highest state
of exasperation, when endurance is no longer

a virtue.

We have yet to see, in any one of the pa-
pers which were so cagerly ready to pounce
upon and denounce the poor slave on the
merest vague conjecture, a retraction of their
unfounded assertions, or so much as a single
word of commendation for the praiseworthy
deeds of the englaved. §

Jet. Davis was to have delivered
on Saturday last, his Inaugural Address as
President of Reb Idom for the next sueceed-
ing six yoars;; ‘0 havo no doubt, if alive,
of which wo hn as little question, tho dovil

eet eee

bemg good t own, that his pronuncia-
mento was ik oe.

Creat preparations were mado to celebrate
the day with! a civic procession, n military
review, fireworks, ote., all of whieh, from
Inter intelligence, aro to ho dlixponsed with ;
as ix conjectured on account of recent intelli-
genes, that tho rebel forces, in’ North Caro-
linn, Virginia, Kentucky, Tounessee, Mis:
xonrh, and other small tracts, have niet with
slight impedinonts, [ut such (rifles seldom
weigh with the Chivalry; we are, thoretore,
Jedd to curmise, i ebange bas been made in
the oviinal programme, it must he trom the
unfortunate eireumataneo that is dinblo toaf
flint Kingstone and Contedoravies, as well as
individualy, tho wate menns to foot dhe
Willis,

many privations comariont upon an tinder

Having expoerioneod, ourselves, the

mupply of Ctilthy Hove, we ean gympathive
with tho Hichmondera and theteassaciater, in
their premeat ateaitoned condition,

Ut tne hy none aitpponed, that recent events
ant have hal dimaping effeet upon Davies
Moneaye, whieh wan probably duly coneooted
and inwardly dipentud nemetiow in advanes,
That itamay tive hoon eomoewhat meditted, in
iptite prohable ; bat thiat there will be any de
fitieney of rebel zeal, any absence of Craton
ouador, any lek of Cronsonable ane ptions
td deelarntionn, we doo net holieve 3 and an
for ploriflention, apponta te Thnyen for dhe
Jiao of Chet entice, nnd nialedicthome upon
the Uatoninte for bolog puiilty of mote evinien
in
will be reoraind te the entiee whoar bond and

Hin arto din Conn thi Dewnlopaie, he
Famt tein, iP aay of Chea bo te (lie lowat

wanthip a

(asm
Cordon, the alave dentin, astlorae
Hie estrone penalty of the law, tie mcwordanen
with the aentenve, on Melday tant, in the
yuan Wl the Now Voole (ity Viinon, where
he won dnencortanl, Aton, hontai
vais edtinte wore nade die hide bob avon
Clovernin Meagan Taticeiet lig whth thie ed
Hert to pemitn forthe seapite, Ane of the
outalia Civile ondenvened to duenive the
Uoritoal tates Movabal, with poatontod tole
pram Cota Waashlagtia, lapliny thorny ta
obtiali a elobay bevel le the Contd te
Himernnonnst finn, Another apust fem at jutdaalin
Heth wan alton cuiel ad aigued tie the
Vetted Btater Choutt Chad, tellee dade
Hite, alge Denn, Cardone conned,
Konegeala lings wherhan (he conten anal be or
Hie ont ica at tha padeona at New Vout,
witht tho cone af tle Mite? Mie at
fort at fothnddation wan alae andi by throat
wali portore, callings a pueblo niatha, fe.
No Ana fend ime ot ovat dhe tie,
gvsoul aLe(haaseed bingy Coe Dvenuesniene of bale elite, (toe.
thin awalliwodl aliyohotio, Miralehod tin
Wav sovagede Hoes vvaleatardeanny Aedtietavono af aan Alta,
af thie cotmetonen abytileon anelety ui’ sane

iH y nenensdintes, wel, lenveoveligy that leu

conseruences to himself, should Gordon he
suffered to make a dying speech on the scaf-
fold, was desirous of having him ‘‘shuffle off
this mortal coil”’ within his loncly cell.

Probably, no one more richly merited
hanging for his misdeeds than this man.
‘No crimes were over perpetrated with cooler
deliberation than the acts of man-stealing,
cruelty, and destruction of humagi life,” of
which he was proven guilty. It is the first
execution which has taken place under the
law, that has now been on the Statute-book
for upwards of forty years. .

It is a subject for gratulation, that notwith-
standing the almost superhuman exertions
made to. shield the culprit from his deserts,
the majesty of the Jaw was vindicated, and
humanity justified ; and we trust his fate, a
needed example, may long operate as a suc-
cessful terror to similar evil-doers.  §

—— On Monday, in the U.S. Senate,
Mr. Wilmot presented, from the Board of
Colonization in Philadelphia, a Memorial
asking that the Independence of Huytt may
be recognized.

Mr. Wilmot also expressed an opinion that
it was incumbent on the Senate to pass an act
abolishing slavery in the-District of Columbia,
believing if it adjourned without so doing, it
would be more derelict in duty than any oth-
er body of men.

OONTRABANDS.

Lieut. Ammen reports that 1,200 negroes
thhave been colonized on {disto Island, under
the charge of a colored superintendent. They
are all cager to be allowed to go to the South
Carolina mainland, and drive away the rebels.

The Washington correspondent of the
New York Post says General Wilson has a
bill ready to report, which, if passed into a
law, will place the colored free people of this
District on a footing of white people, so far
as their liberties are concerned, and their
prosecution and punishment by courts or
officers of law.

The same correspondent gives the follow-
ing somewhat discouraging account of the
Anti-slavery prospect in the House. “The
House Judiciary Committee is strangely di-
vided on the slavery question. It would
seem to be impossible to get any radical
measure on the subject from the committee.
The democrats have of eourse only a small
minority, but several of the Republicans on
the committee are “conservative,” or rather
old-fogyish, in. their tendenices. Three Re-
publican members of the committee are very
backward in giving their consent to any lez
islation against slavery. and they are Diven,
of New York, Kellogg, of Tlinois and Thor-
as, of Massachusetts. With a committee so
constituted many things go undone, and. es-
pecially unreported, which would otherwise
receive prompt attention. Bills of great im-
portance were long ago referred to this com-
mittee on the subject of slavery aad the dis.
loyal states, but they have not yet been taken
up by the comnitice for consideration.

Many of the negroes carried by the rebels
from Wentucky to Nashville, Tenn., seme
time since, to aid in fortifying the city, avail-
ed themselves of the paniv oveasioned by the
capture of Forts Henry and Donelson, and
started on the way back to their former homes,

Tho Port Royal correspondent of the Now

York ‘lribuiio says, ‘the manner in whieh a
portion of the Northort) Army allows itself to
speak and act toward the negroes with who
itis brought in. contact, bs a disgrace to the
civilization whieh it assumes to represent and
defend.”

WAR ITEMS,

It is reported that on tha ESth inst, twe
rebel regiments: trom Clarksville went to
Fort: Donelson and pave themselves up:
stating that they had heen deceived, and
wore tired of fighting against the old tlag.

Hla Otheer Foote has oftieially announced
to the Navy Dopartinent that “Wo have pos:
session of Clarksville, ‘The rehels have re-
treated toy Nashville, having set tire to the
splendid cairo betdye across the Cambor
hand river,” He proposed to proceed up the
Caumberhind with gnurbrats and mortar-boats,
Lieut, Vennook telegraphs later, that Com,
Foote has pone doin tho Mississippi river,

(ren, Elatlleck tolyaaphs that Gen. Curtis
has captared Brentonvitle, Ark, with) von
siderable baggage.

The Nostolk Day Book, of the (uh inst,
Hinks it mere than probable chat Moet
Donelson tas fallen!

On Friday dant, 100 exchanged prisonors
arrived at Monte Tt wax rn
mored, but inearreetly, that Cols. Corernin
amd Toe, and Major Rovere woul be ef the
mimboer, ‘These otleors, with others, have
mince arrived at Haldimere,

(on, Leamepant in reported niok in body,
nitoubtedly he tein mind, at Nashville, and
the Charlestoniaus have alloted ap prayers in
hie bohall The prayers of the wieked, we
we tol avail nought; isa, bia ease isa
decporate ene,

Mloyd aml Pillow are anid tu bo at Nash
ville; Sidney dohoston teat Qallatin, Bem,

Colo diee, it in anid, was told by abel
allear, punt prior te leaving Miehmonid, that
acdespatel: hid boon received announcing the
tall of Naahville,

Con. Wael, amler a thay of tee, tad an
iiterviow an the Sukh inet. with) Howell
Cobb, selative toon peneral evelange ot
pet drvrnnenn

Ttdaeaid there will monn besa important
onward movenione by the Tatami livdsion,
“the ml! fo the contin y wotwithetanding,

The note of preparation ie adil yoing on ad
Che Boston whi ven di vegial dole atten by
perition | tho balance of mon, nities, and
ATTICA WIL MCI DTT way aid one tng
(hon, Tatler will, we tant, hive an appenen
nity at veytip alan, ar whieh he would poe
fer af noni, to the oneiy, drvabers adead,

Che Clan loatan Courlor annuiiena, on (he
mitiyetey oP a letter Rone Savannah at the
{Adl Inat., the ovacnation al Untoenwioh, Qa,

Nnounedioid tol te the Seoretary of
Wary None Cirle, natin Chit Chlnplin
ia Tt pirsnnatin Ena, the pean
Hon be tat the onemy evant i Nem Bin
of havhiap all coumnlortion ont off by one
Ueansapone, antiel Tovdustoeter tas antantee Che nla tn
tvatny ad Monplite,

Thos hive ovetved at Endlanapotia, 6000
of the Part Donelao polaanete, whe ave dos
uated va the bitoat Toatchgy aed ot men
over coblootal tapathor,

Vho Upton fiveee ai ti aveupation of
Cnnborlind Qa aml temolledtte, iy,
Nhe tattap ta ate wa thw plow rolootod thie
the Hint Capltal Ky the whole, A legue
Hogtatatine wee vans, and a haynes

‘
Yortrosa

fy

Expricit, 1 xor Comprimentary.—The
Montreal Gazette passes in review the war’
intelligence from this country, with running’
comments thereon; and in speaking of our
our troops engaged in “the last glorious vic-
tory,” so called, we mean, of course, that at
Ball's Bluff, it closes with the remark, “they.
were in the unfortunate position of being led
by asses, failing to manifest the commonest
forethought,.to say nothing of military skill.””
So far as this may be applicable to the pro-
jectors, and hehind-the-seene directors of
this shameful hlunder, we fay amen; but as
regards those who bore the brunt, the active
leaders in the field, we think the observation
unjust and untrue. Col. Baker, for in-
stance, upon whom dead, aspersions are be-
ing cast, to shield from merited obloquy, the
living, with the exception of placing himself
conspicuously in the van, under an erroneous
notion of duty, did all that man could do un-
der the circumstances. He evidently follow-
ed his instructions like a faithful soldier,
whose first lesson is to ohey orders implicitly,
and this he did when his knowledge and good
sense admonished him that by so doing he

rete!

‘nothiag of her sustaining the institution
Of slavery, by her political power. And now
the North, too, must be punished. She is
being punished severely. But, if she scill,
she may come out of the contest triumphantly,
baving-suffered the chastisement annexed to
her.'transgressions. Doughfaces will then, I
trust; be at a disconnt, if they are allowed
in the market at all; and the people will
breathe a purer, if not a pure atmosphere ;
the lightning and thunder of battle, the lurid
hail of Freedom’s artillery having purified
the air from the noxious malaria arising from
the pools of Northern servility. To succeed,
the hited States Government mest conduct
the war upon ‘principle. She must be one
and indivisible for freedom, as the Southern
Confederacy is for slavery. She must not
cower beneath the impatation of Abelition-
ism, nor must she kill off; or attempt to kill
off, those of her Generals who believe in ex-
tirpating slavery, in order to crash the re-
bellion. The crisis has come, and it must be
met manfally.

Whatever may be the policy of the pres-
ent Administration, whether the war be a
short or a protracted one, I believe that
slavery is a doomed institation. The band-
writing is on the wall. The angel of the
Lord bas written it, and neither men nor
devils can efface it. ‘‘What I bave written,

would sacrifice his life. §

as

The Dine.
REFLECTIONS FOR THE TIMES,

BY WM. J. WATKINS.

He must be wilfully blind and infatuated
who cannot discern, as in the cold, clear light
of Eternity, the doom which awaits this wick-
ed and perverse nation unless she dash with-
out delay, the poisoned chalice of so-called
conservatism from her lips, Tepent of her ini-
quities, and bring forth fruits meet for re-
pentance, by proclaiming Linerty through-
out all the land, unto all the inhabitants
thereof. She has had line upon line, and
precept upon precept, here a little, and there
a great deal ; but with an audacity parallelled
only by her Iniquity, she has rushed down
the stream of Time, until the verge of the
precipice has been almost reached, and, per-
haps, the attempt to leap back from the

the awful chasms Heaven forbid !

Itis useless to cavil, it is absurd to philos
ophize, about the cause of the present war
Every body who is not a contirmed lunatie,
knows that slavery is the cause. Had there
been no slavery, there would have been n

of the attempt of a majority of the Northern
States to eripple and contine the foul, and
murderous, and revengeful hag they hare so
long petted and pampered. Slaveholders are
always “pouty.” when their slightest wish is
disregarded. They are impressed with the
idea that they are born to command, to lord
it over God's heritage. Pride, with them, is
a chronic disease. Though well aware of
their insatiate avarice, as well as their pride,
the North has yielded to their demands year
after year, antl, atlength, like spoiled child-
ren, they could not and would not brook the
idea of refusal.

Thery is about slavery no inherent vitality,
no reeuperative energy.
own breast the elements of dissolution. This
parasitieal curse has fastened itself upen the
heart of the Nation, which has strained every
nerve, and bled at every pore, to sustain it
Tha Governmont, ~ =the Noediwed (aves sont

OOOO ROR SEMEL ULity

—has always been its mast obedient servant,
responded to its imperious mandates with the
most cordial alacrity, and given it assurances
of the most distinguished — consideration,
And now the nation is reaping the rewant of
hor spaniel-like ubsequionsness, her Tiek-the-
dust servility. ‘The Southern Coutederaey is
one ofthe most erucl and arbitrary despotisnrs
that over disgraced the grven earth of God.
And yet itis but the formal development: of

the Piewes, and Buchanins, aud Cashings,
ef td onine genus, have glovitied, dhe same
that has ofon caused thor to quaillike fright:
oned bints ina thunder storm. ven betore
the prosent sangiinary struggle, men, beease
of their complesion, were driven fron their
homes, or allowed to remain whore they were
horn anty on condition of heir becoming
slaves, Tn vielation of (he Constitution, of
the comity of States, and of the radanental

with slavery. were Ceated wid every indy
nity whieh Satanie malignity could tivent,

Nsoated s their houses burned aver their heads :
their lives doperdont upon dhe eaprice of a
wiobs Hented: like wild boasts: driven than
ther homes, in seme instances, without ame:
ments warning) Whore, in the aanals of

vonted ‘
the vivilized world, could unotlonding men be
soled, and withont even the shatlow moekery
of atrial, Gievd and feathered by dhe ined,
sometimes, by the ministers ot the Syyspel

Poy .
sake ot aventlad Union, of pease, and har
mony lt Nbolitionists ered out with dw.

montana oaynestiess againat seh a disgeaee
(ilo oand: anividal nmuneiation of Northern

Mauihood, Haw long. eried they, am sich
Hlagtat and detestable outrage Gea anne
Tnlan 2 Haw long te the shavehabter
vile ronal shod over tho entien band TW bith
vr raid thoy, ane wo ddrifing +
fatal prooipto ix the Nation madly hess ‘
Vat choir appeal amt protestations were dle
vated, Gad oalled ante the people an the
warniiyy valve of Tltatory, bath xawred aad
profane, to Benes, bat they continted: te
Annee do the dtiloet anise af eonvessian and
vompramaian, Langhing all to wtih in the
fhoo ot Heaven. and ehallvaginy, Cline to eon
bat

Noone will tobe that had dhe Novth net
whe che ompght do have dene. and ae she
voitht have dee, Che seceded: SGitae want
Hover hive leon emboldened Ge asanine (heir
piesent belligerent and deflate position, Oh,
tte vontomptible dunghiiiven {Phe doapion
Ito nentita £ ‘They gave ap the blaek wean,
Tomi Rani ar athon, day after days ta pin
Htinty Che alae poner, faguitting that the
daoko ran de dhedt tnother, val that a haw
wierd at the righbeat one ian, Wie watiert
Hnationable righbs, bea bho atiied ad Hwan
HY, mul gated avevad HA Trvsetteny neve
cageiteese Adee ade xterdi Ad new (hat
tho Noth boys de thd ant that (hoe ds tot a
Hey guestane ninnply, Chat slavery ds the
Homion oromy et a esmmon tamanity, whe
Hantitade nn toepatiann and detonation
Avivo Helo dhe commen enemy,

Te COLNE MR) KOOL SL

Clovevaoe liatathal there,

woot hee eoloeod atlanta

erumbling brink, will but plunge her into}

rebellion. The rebellion is the outgrowth ;

lt bas within its |

the same demon spirit whieh Northern men, |

[rineiples af a socal tive Government, 1
Northern men. edits men. with thie eves, |
avoused of ne erie save a laek ef sympathy |

ov beatal Genzy intliet: their pryperty cons |

Jwrseauition, are ine ilaniant wudiages ys |
In what other Commonwealth in:

sanotioned hy the ministers of dhe “law aad

Aint yot these things wei endird: die the,

‘Tawant what |

‘Vho Neath}

I have written,” saith the Angel. The win-
iter of the slave’s discontent will yet be made
| glorious summer, by the sun of Liberty, and
| some of the clouds, if not all, that now lower
‘about his house, will be in the deep bosom of
‘the ocean buried. I know not how or when
he will be free; but my hope is, that soon
will be driven back the barbaric bolt, and
{then, look ! he leaps forth from the death-
‘dungeon of oppression, amid the eestatic
hallelujabs of the civilised world. While
timid men at the North alternate between
hope and fear, one thing is certain : God has
fixed the bounds of the baughty Southroas’
habitation. ‘Thus far shalt thea go, and
no farther, and here shalt thy procd waves
be stayed."” The traitors themselves hare
accelerated the rapid decline of slavery;
they have precipitated its disastrous decm.
Perhaps. they now remember that the gallows
erected for Mordecai. was the identical inere-
ment upon which Haman himself swong ~
into eternity. A lke fate attends them. We
see, now, perhaps, but the beginning of the
end. That end may be more wage than
| most men anticipate. The new slumbering
‘and paralyzed arm of our sable millions may
ret awake, instinct with superhuman energy.
; Their smothered aspiratens may vet bors
‘through the startling gloom ; and driven to
esperation, they may settle with the weighs
f doom upon their bant-bearted eppressers.
| Slavery cannot long withstand the power
harraved against it, when ence that power is
i wheeled into determined and effective activa.
| Again, the institution ean never have anecter
i General Government in sympathy with is.
i There can be na more cauprmies One
‘more compromise will net enly disevace, bat
“destroy and dawn the Naten forever, The
: Northern people are opposed te campron: ke.

. Even if they were in favor of it, it mus be

i rementbered that the rulers of the Southera
; Confederacy indignantly reeet the Nee of
Fany more compromises, And shouhl there
be a reconstrnetion of the Trion, there never
ean be a reconstruction upon the former basis.
i No, never! This would be mere child's
play. Reoonstrueding the Union. will aos
change the ossential character of shavery, ot
of slavebolders, The same causss will pre
duce the same results, Stagnant pools bow
iy ous so dows slavure fied rebolliwn

~... Lincoln and bis Cabin: must thea
ay ty work to sive the Nation by driving
slavery out of the land. Tet then ting out
their grappling irons, amd keep them out, he
jtened upon the sti necks of every slavebokt
erin the land, uutil with ane geod, they
ery, “we wield! we yield) we ean bak cut
ne one” .

L trust thac the Adhuinistration will vet be
compelled to boldly proelain this to bes war
Jagainst slavery, sud wage agalust this aggre
bation of mmonstrons: intguiges, sx aurea:
Tag contest, THE then. tt does net deere,
nor will it achieve srevess,

Meanwhile, Tet those who wish tor the sts
cess of the Government, (as every wer of
iUberty must dod, avatinnte: to agttte with a

Wise references (0 this desir annsumestion.
{Speak ont the truth with Celeess and ste
Peony, Met in consonanes with the divtane
Pat Justion, of humaniqy, af avtigien. thar ne
Uigion whieh Chest aame apo the earth t

7 ostablish,-— and fet us ever remember that all
ithat ds bvight and aanddt in heaven snd in
pearthy is with as sat the best of sll while
ithe billows toss themselves, and the chads
Exather Mack ness, amd the oor and wares grow
‘terribly athands the bast at al iss cian ds
Para ae?
c meow)

FUTURE OF THE COLORED PROPIA

Wasi pas, DOC datean ERS
je, Natoott Pie Ses Thaw been
We Washington about two months, daring
whieh prin Uhave endeavwat te find cat
asumich as possible about the eandifien at
j the votowed people sand tist, LU will sas
Pwont about the ehildten of etoand peuple ss
L find on oedal
sv and trqatiny, (here is ne evtonad schoal
inty whieh the outonal pupil aa entero
opt tr elea i Ther aie some priate
‘avhools tanght by cotonad taehors, but they
Fane net looatat with ay wanltatity: sv of
Foti theny ate a gevat portion at the chit
Hato who do not attend: school at all
On feqitontly seas anal eatonad boys
‘
t
{

Lseo them about town,

aevurnanrorettns He with the everlasting bet;
Kuo, intethavnt looking little Btlows, with
thete coats white apnous and tl hives,
PAE WEEK on the stops af seme, ides a goott
Pwany af the Tousas, Chae pase sloughs ve
Loastoually saying a kind wont to them, and
Canty sayityy “hdtth man, am ay de:
HeLa fee better tate Autor the Kitehen,

‘aad vou will Rind the bay matad bea eouner,
j Marita: Qe sone boll, av ether oath te anvise
j Line Tome bis tiay states Go ation, ated
thon aetna to bie seat again his mind ted
Pwhally to dtselt! te aately aad rovalve aver and
Haver again the far that porsses avout bli,
{Coton men and wenn, have aw nething
itv ale ty holy owe peace ohihton out of this
Havkiters 2 Mat they aon dh aeration
tw pormenation | and we wait Qe aha f

x Ahoy te eon whoiw ae ean have
soprrality, ated thowe Tethy tagae and atl take
[Wt those hovid aprons, att lay own the
j avon aid cluster, anit tiaoantingg tho sertans,
HUET Be, PU OM Che ohoortlitioes ot
Souths atut with choles axatehel aemee thely
xbroliten, aout att to thete achoal, yaa, antl
waitoges too, aid boomer and ween f
VE then te miteh a eontitiy, at WO UE Bh
Why Wot gw * O. Baaw.

4 wame

«A eave ott hh at owt halt Red dy hie eonl,

dn gquaddty wlth the Saves dtl ate Han bee bat all aac at with a meen dh its
We tn a ae with eloplanting tanh, hovel
wp the dyh

vo Splowc mute amaatoe when paneled,

ROUGH NOTES OF HOME TRAVEL,

| I.

Man is not wholly the creature of circumstances.
Lanonnce this truth without hesitaney and with
implici: faith, [know it from observation and ox
perience; for both have taught me that there is
something within man which asserts dominion over
! atl manner of outwand influences.

Lam not squint eyed; I can look forward ina
straight line. Nearly all of my neighbors are sim.
ilarly blessed. And yet I, and they, have lived sev-
eral snecessive vears in the city of Boston, and have
deen forced, therefore, whenever we walked its
streets, to look obliquly,—zizzagily—tortuousty, in
every possible direction—excepting straight ahead.
Thus, as Henry C. Wright says, Man is greater than
his Institations—even those decided Institutions
called (by courtesy) the streets of Boston.

Were you ever in Boston, gentle reader, and, if
so, did vou ever try to give directions to a stranger
by which he might find any possible place more
than a hundred rods distant? If you wish to learn
humility, and the limits of human ability, just at-
tempt the task, and try, at the same time, to describe
the route by the mozion of your hand. You will
thus learn how impossible it is for human tongue!
to describe, or human arm to imitate, the exceeding }
and wonderful tortuosity of Boston. My first im-
pressions, indeed, of that city, many years ago be-
fore I had learned to reverence, with unquestioning
faith, the Pilgrim Fathers who laid out, and the
Barclays who lie in the city of Boston, induced the ,

NEW PUBLICATIONS,

Tuk Westminster Revirw for January, 1862.
republished by Leonard Scott & Ca, New York.
For sale by Crosby & Nichols, Boston, and Book-
sellers generally, throughout the United States.
The contents of this number are as follows, viz:

1. “Law in and for India.” Anarticle which
may be read with profit by many on both sives of
the Adlantic, and more especially by some of our
trans-Adantic brethren, who are so. far-sighted as
to desery shatever is wrong (and Heaven knows
the wrong is heinous,) in our conduct towanls the
negro race, and yet are so extremely nearsighted
as to be unable to see the glaring iniquity: which
their own countrymen have for generations prac-
ticed towards the various races who inhabit India;
where “oppression has been the sad lot of the na-
tive from the dawn of history.”

2. "The Dramatic Poetry of Ochlensehliiger,”
who is characterized as the greatest of all the poets
of Denmark, and whose name, in the poetical
literature of modern Europe, stands in the front
ranks, not merely from the fact of his confessed su-
periority at home, but from the “intrinsically high
position he is entitled to assume when compared
with the most distinguished votaries of the Muse
among his contemporaries in other lands.”

3. “The Religions Heresies of the Working
Classes.” This article descants at some length
upon the wide-spread prevalence of materialism
among the working classes of England, the
causes which have led toand promote it, and more

belief that its Surveyor must have been some! indireetly though clearly shows how the tendency

drunken Deacon; but an attempt, on a recent occa-

iz to be arresied, and more cheering and reliable

sion, to direct a stranger by the motion of my hand | religions faith is to be substituted and cnitivated,
compelled me to abandon this belief. 1 now hold ; It divides Secularism into two kinds; viz: Newa-
that its original plan was the production ofa snake— , tive Secularism which doubts or denies God and
whether in its proper skin, in an Elder’s boots ora ‘immortality; and Positive Secularism, which
Deacon’s brain I am unable to determine; but cer- | dwells exclusively on the duties of this world,
sain I am that a snake, a whole snake and nothing I without reference to any being higherthan man,
but a snake, must have conceived and given birth | or any state beyond the present.” The reviewer
to a thing so very splay-footed, so bandy-legeed, so; says, “We know that in various quaricrs a nobler
bow-bellied and so utterly, entirely, and essentially, | theology is preached ihan that which has made

crooked asthe Capital of New England, (at leas?.)* : men Secularists.

Independent, Swedenborgian,

There: Thad better say no more, as I may be | Unitarian, and Church of England divines, with
obliged to return tothat city, and this is enough, ‘ different degrees of heresy, eloquence, and force,
should my identity be discovered, to have me disci- ‘ preach God, Man, and the Bible, in a way that
plined in the charch, expelicd from the Common, : would have kept multitudes of the homeless
(which every one knows was the original modcl of; wanderers within the Christian pale. But these
Eden.) and, worse than all, to have me expeiled | men’s sermons, the working classes, when first

beyond the humanizing pale of that sacred circle; t
calied the upper ten thousand, or our best society. | |
Before leaving the subject, however, | nay men-

‘ read.

hey eried, ‘Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbe-
ief,’ did not hear, and their writings they did not
They know them now, perhaps, a little, but

tion this fact—That my snake theory received a are in most cases too far gone to he affected by

clinching confirmation when I read the history oft

hem, for they can no longer stand upon the

the Anthony Burns trial; when J saw the Juhn' ground of a common feeling. Even the wish to

Brown meeting broken up; and, above all, when I: }

nave arcligious faith at all has been crushed ont

saw the Yankee Dogberry, who then filled the of many hearts. They multiply difficultics with a

Mayor's Chair, triumphantly re@lected to that §
omice. Sarely, ifever acity got on its belly, and: t
groveliec in the dust, it was the city of Boston on |!
those three several occasions. Aye, it got lower}

ad persistency, and hemined in by a fatal lozic
hat rejects intuitions, and distrusts the affections,
hey neither sce a way of escape nor hope for one.”

We furnish elsewhere two extracts froin this par

downin :he miry moral depths than a snake ever ! per; one chiefly on account of its reference to the late

goi, lthiak;—/for @ snake has one power which ; Theodore Parker, the uncompromising advocate of

catscs nen to respect it—it hasa bite of death; but; human rights, and of the exercise of reason and
i

poor Boston had only the slinie and the motions of , 3
the reptice, then.
—We staried from Loston one evening in Janu-
ary last. There are three ways of going from Los-
ton ty New York.
Providence and S:onington Route.

udgment in relation to spiritual affairs as well as

“temporal concerns; the other as presenting the
wise conclusion arrived at by the reviewer.

4. “Income Tax Reform.” An article which at

We chyuoss the best linc—the this time, when the subject of ‘Taxation is engross-
The Fall River ing so much attention with us, will be read with

Line, some say, is the Lest onc to come back on,as . Some interest, although it bas special reference to
you gete better chance to sleep; but the bouts, England.

berths and atiendance in the state-rooms, are very !
inferior iy these of the Stoningwn Line. The state-

re

5. “Admiral Sir Charles Napier.” This is an in-

teresting sketch of “a warm-hearted, trac, and carn-

rooms are cold; there is no gaa in thern—only misera- cst Inan—of a capable, a yallant, and w successful

bie oil lamps; end the owners arc 50 very mean iat. S
they duro: allow you matches. The supper is |
geod—ezeellent, and the waiters attentive; Lut,
when you say this, you tell every thing that can : 7
be justly eaid in praise of Fall River Line. L went: ©
oure over it, and never incan to go again, if can:
belp is.
The country between Poston and Groton, where ©

i tras.”

caman.”
6. On Transtfating Homer,” furnishes food for

tauch thought among Classical readers, as article

, “Popular Education in russia,” does for Teach:
m5 and other Educationists.

& “The Aimcrican Bellizerents ; Rights of Neu-
This is the last, and Ieast satisfactory arti-
le, and one which we should hardly have anticipa-

the cans wwp, and the steamers start, did not ptrike ted, finding in a Review of the liberal character of
ine as ptcutialy picturesque; indeed, my recolice- : the Wesuninister, [thas pone of the coarseness

tious of it, at the present time, belong to the domain | 4
. !
of the Vague.

The. ama Bernie. ete. a olson weherdawrornce

eters

We pene bare newer mee reeneeg or teregereseuy WOE Ib
looking towns, with a hill or two, that it docs one |
geal, if nis lange are not atrony, to climb ups; hits |

that teas damb-lalis ali hollow, as the boys any; !

' 4, a , We
ans which, in Winter time, it must give the young Contemporary Litera Ino
Provi- | pares of Closely printed matter, furnishing the

rewels a world of delight Ww elice down. ;
dems permitting, Linean to visit Providence again, a
endthen [ wilitry ww de justice io iv claim ty hue:
wen pralee. iJ
What modern conders are ther: floating temples €
of trwis, called suamers! ‘Take the youd faucaier j J
Cannon wealth, forexample. She carries freight |
tinh whave aunk an argues Of the times of |
the kere Wonders of the World, when dite) i
hess were seen timidly floating along the ahores | ,
A Gres, hardly comturing out of sight of |
jawl; and, then, abe bas saloon fives up ina ptyle iJ
that would have done erofit to the taate and the | \
wealth of the Old Lusperor of the baat. What did |
the ancient produc wy ioasvellous ax Unat pease | i
engine? Or, route ezecraile than Chat barrogin bear

(

1% Mors wonderfnl than « palace uu the wea, rite |,

hing taruer than the aeced of tie Aeeteat bores? Or!

Saland,

volted provinces?”

vd vulgarity which disfgure the Blackwood arti-

Ce, on which we had occasion to comment not long
since hat it hetrave 6 deteionoy of informe

wean

hthe cauject dikcussed, and presents by no means an
impartial view of it.

‘This Number closes with the usual abstract of
ature, Hiling upwards of thirty

cader with a vast anount of interesting and valua-

bie matter In the Departments of Theology and

*hilosophy, Politics, Sociology, and Travels, Sei-
nee, History and Biography, and finally Belles
AUIS,

Yun CaontixentaL Moxtuny, Dostonsd. J
tilmore, ‘This new Periodical han materially in-
reased in tins, without losing a particle of its orig
nat vigor: aul preatly as it has enlarged in dimen-
1ore proportionally bas it nugmenced its
thereby clearly evinriog that Tt stick

2
io

ions, fare

sees

mtronaye,

Parich deal when it aimed to identify ioelf with the

rug Sathonsl Policy,

The opening Article inthis the Mareh Number,
a “Southern Aids to the North,”
fn thin the off asked question bs dincunsed,
‘fuenune of vietory, what enn we do with the se
Bays the weiter, “when we nre

hy Charles OG.

t
wien do nen tnake anything viler than the smeuth | Ualinug saul it ba well ter Kanow that it will be pos:
tt Mat lowd fellow on the deck there, whee: laeath " albte te crentunlly cleneh bt, And when the Coun.
ie pars orith the fines of bquorand the Jule of ; tro ahall fully aaderstand the case with whieh this
Vatarsiy, ai who mouth be hike the pate of bell 1 Eaton gallo say be clenched, there willbe, fet as
nee Reape for foulners and oMuvin of the hope, a prently revived mpirit jn nll now luterrated

Iseapite Whe nasty however, FI :
bed thes tae wild and ile peuple are whyane bay
Mi every ways net ball eo feet ma we beljeve,

wn! :
aeath, Vin forwarding the war. ‘The dimplerent by whieh
Lut eeadly, onward, and typed fn ioral parity

deviied
this clenching tate be effected ty comnmtersevaln.
tion, and the proper directlonn for handling saved

gelog tian workmanlike manner, are naceinelly

ae) ae it enn he poncs,

Yhere a as mul wi beodness now ay bere cver
war, bat there repotes much of the Witbier kind;
ALO Ue she tare wan he Nebt hich firatehone
alae the manverin Methichem, aie moun: aetive,
were numerags. now than ever, and slowly are |
ati aut, ane by one, i linitatlon of their Maa !
ter, Ue Daevile whe have fed eo ong on pour auf
fesug tnan, Wan nay they be cuat date the avenue,
eid wen nay Mite syaln be converted Inte aul
cial pork, nid the devils themselyea, Uf ithe with:
in the venus A Gols meng, be tunel from the
aerate! thei wey, wo hive,

fo mai not writing on ceeny, f
SheuWte Nast iota ine aed threagh ae,

sever (ebtk
teem ye
Skew nat when they cate ta whether they poo
fear wWhecie ton: sacvelione than thesght pid
yn eres think haw you think? Viet na Dhak,
Spent down my thoughts, eametinies eerigus, ate °
times the pernret, aud ae they come, here they nie, |
without sonnedion ar cminiaiy, i
Alowye aeop hit Maye, well ventiatod pein, |
Youinay koeow you nen not wl

whenever you cmt,
OChtietian, nate very decent inn, yan Whe clase, |
dest wie Povile fos nas euch Soulness, Angeels |
tanned nine nigh you, you eiepanind yenreett
qth euch we atiaphers, Whe bined, Cabynye |
einy wl Pes beat bite, nnd wand te gel te be a
Bal ronnie, HOt been Pen Sar loaunous Welny |
mredtiteds fur fain a eon) vezelanon, wad feed |
G0 Ue rdinglent Bet, wid wee Jdiiterct whether F!
Rep ate Semthiee tant trona, tar etn, On enrpek |
but bes nei, wtany prion, | wnntelenn ded bathlag, |

i

ten parine, wd fae ile, wn TE de cote flat
YUN bate Yad ices pevcasunlen af a healitey lite, betde |
floral ol eae aplr ital, ate ered nae hotel, oa de
weed close ateminer, Mor the denen of your
femecie Vinee wu Javestiyation Jute Hie etute
veda the CGammonnentth, end here wee the
Pip ranye seautta

8, 74, Wy, 8, 88 A, HT, NTH TA, OT, BO.

Cat thees ANytice aut, wd pork tem dn yas
pocket hank, wd yon haul meer Nagy te
few ed fen ae ty Beaton hey is Commanweatth,
whan yan bee ONY mere Mabe fe iheas
nnmbenee i the vedes We whb dl Miey ape piven, and j
yea Wh yack me Aes reotetin, wed wilt Mat yeas oul
seriplion for The Mae and Malin hae heen minply
pid tes hy tbh iifariaiion alone, ae

8 Wedel Mii ys seye Meet te Mw Vendy ot Ainerton
Wise autora, yaa thal out onze min ky Nebel WIN
! Pree rer linely, Sunn suns yee Binnie ye abewtghl!

‘ awmrcm?t
Slave up hee, wd jay
he Aen on, neha nudged wo
he atdobaion baa.

apten bed edage andl |
fenpy alenter wilh

a

1
1 vdee

net forth,

‘This is follawed by an ndinliable paper on the

Inquiny, “Us Cotton Gur Kang? By on cotton Spin
puary, 4 y

neo” ‘Those whe linge read Ali Bawa Athin-

ron’s Drochure on the Cotton Question, lasied come

mettle dies, Hhetusnids of which live beer ex ten
tively clreutated, nod neeompllahed much qeaad, te
punplitet enaioatlog trem one whe ds wart ane
true hearted fend of the oppress
lover of his Country, 0 Philsatheoplat nad Patelet
suteh, need bet doo bates tineed

ed, nnd noalnceno

“olthe fret water,’
that (de he whe answers the Question, to be da
dared te send the replys and devin cen Wi, they
wilbariae fron the perusal willy the eonviethon dat
the duterrogation was pddpesned to ene well quill
Ned ta respod io Me nepative, ane te eustala tds
reponse with meeinenta nd facts deduced fram
Matdoera author itles

‘the following ate eabjedta of other
Whiele ate, de the pain, execedtodt, bab agen whieh

Mapers,

Pater Wendted apace depaives ueof the pleases of

Aelia vies Gen Metterean’s Conspnten tn
Vibegedenda bests iden: Vedyesepedn, saved this Copel hes
v7 by Mey, W. Frethiaghoin; One of My Iie
Heeeseors, by Bava ‘Taylor, Phe Bite Berd
Cfaniecttar Campleth’’ Che Gaal Wiles A tot
itty The Magaenot Matidies
Ainerten,” 1) Diessaveny OM aeeieent
att Conene, by Men Mo helo; “deha Lethaap
Motley, by Della b, Cotton, Arwen the Pineda”
toy the: Auth ef the Cettun Miates; CAetve Hig
cr Crmnputenlage dn Weeteer Visgtates A

Pde Itat do ettrnethiy feeds at

ne rile in

hy thon ©

Cabin feashupy
tention, titer Che Detlef that the reniaeke aeade by
Hee datelocntarg, elaghag thoes Maven obteiaye,
ahipeelesys Croc t hy eeeneseeve based (Mies Peete: meat tera tite cof Pipe
Sieeldent, sad hia Departed Mecpetartes, ait
calla a amehed todt je Gon, MeCtillan'a clue
was dee
Sree Agsesage the Mine, we pele hy nnd tasadsy
foie eedienna a lene li, whdede es bi eie cn of Mas
tepee dere tee sof Me ebpes pace aeline Havas tietdinn  Pretes
pple theeuple tha anmten, nee accel poctial
pradacione of vated aiehy ane of whhle we
msilajeedyy tee Coda petdeasy mater tly, We Mor Ma dally
Chee cote erecveeteed etatesy ged Utes wlajdedinogg tos thie
fratnen Of he Vinee. Pha peter a atteotion need
eanely be dete ta tha Gey Elta,” nen
hes culled te dhe OP a Tolle
HMA Cd ban

"Hoe Mheee dol de thes Conuiey a rey]

ices Para Obes Ves yeapetsd eeerecoDfeew ty

Hothbage negdeet, nnd nathing leaen,

Heo Mane da frog thas abled tee ateaya,

PAtele Mey ceed ot aerated en hat,

Whe teal ot heeding Hie Bethinene ability

Kite ieee vane, ao they abreont ated,

Me toes Bseonetdieca ea adated geterves ae Median ey alee j

Husaale fer thin qeadieg ebonrge aie Chile

Cattai fa atved ly teneesebegye i ta”

NEW YORK CIty NEWS,

Graxp Concsnt.—A_ grand concert: for the
benefit of the Abyssinian Baptist Chureh, Waverly
place, camo of in that Church on) Wednesday
evening last, The interest of tho performance cen-
tved in Miss KE. 'T. Greenfield, the “Black Swan,”
who was ably assisted by Mrs, Brown, the “Amert-
can Nightingale.” ‘The programmo was selected
with great judgment, and the enthusiastic manner
in which the various pieces were recelved, plainly
showed the appreciation which the audience enter-
tained of the abilities of the performers. Some of
the pieces were rendered by Miss Greenfield ina
truly splendid manner, and among them we may
mention Handel's recitative—"“T know that my Re-
dcemer liveth,” Himmel’s “Bate Prayer,” the
Scottish song, “What's a’ the steer, Kimmer?"—
allof which were most loudly applauded and en-
cored. Prof. Kook officiated at the piano, in his
usual brilliant style, and, taken altogether, the con-
cert passed offin a manner which was highly grati-
fying to all present.

STEAM COMMUNICATION WITH Port-au-PRINCE,
The friends of Hayti will be glad to learn that the
steamships on the line between New York and da-
maica, tow regularly touch at Port-au-Prinee.
Exvonrts ro HWarti.—The value of the exports
to Hayti from the port of New York for the week

ending February 18, was $33,766.
LETTERS FROM A COLORED SOLDIER
No. [Y.

Ox THE Fietp oF Battie, )
February 9, 1859. {
Editors of The Pine and Palm; The Burnside
Expedition has been gloriously successful. The
rebels have been defeated, and driven from Roa-
noke Island. On Friday, our flect came to anchor
in Albemarle Sound, at ten o’clock A.M. The
rebels fired into the fleet from a battery on the
shore, The gunboats responded with vigor. .
4P.M.—The bombardment is progressing with
great fury,
5P.M.—We are gaining upon the rebels; our
troops are being landed in smull boats, in the face
of the enemy's batteries.
9P. M.—We are on the Island; the enemy is
held in check; hostilities have ceased for the nizht,
Saturday, 10 A. M.—The battle has been re-
sumed; the rebel land battery is being engaged by
our troops; the bombardment is still going on.
1:40 P. M.—The rebels have been driven from
the batteries at the point of the bayonet. The ficld
jis ours; and we are pursuing the rebels,
11 PL M.—Two thousand rebels have rncondi-
tionally surrendered. [tis the end of one of the
bloodiest battles of the campaign.
Our victory has indeed been brilliant, but we
have paid dearly for it. Our loss is about thirty
killed, among whom is a Colonel and a Lieutenant-
Colonel, and a numbcr of line officers. We have
in the hospital between 75 and 8) wounded; they
are ml doing well. The cnemy’s loss [ have not
ascertained, but it has been considerable. I count-
ced ten dead in one bateery, myself. O. Jennings
Wise, son of Gen. Wise, is one of our prisoners,
and he is mortally wounded,
WIE J, 8h CG. V.
Headquarters, Fort Reino, Roanoke Island, N.C., )
February, 10,—8 o'clock,

Since Saturday, everybody here has been in
a perfect state of excitement, and up to. this
morning, [ have not had an opportunity to
examine the field of batde, and its surroundings;
but now that [have done so, [ will endeavor to vive |
yona faint idea of things as they are here, and
then you will be able to appreciate the importance
of ovr vietory. The enemy was attacked at two
different points atthe same time. The gunboats
enyaged the enemy’s Fort No. f, whith is situated
ona point of land commanding the main channel,
and mounts twelve 82-pound guns, whilst our forces
drove, at the point of the bayonet, the rebels from
their inland battery No, 1, which is situated about
one mile from the southero extremity of the [stand,
and cominands the main and only rond across it.
This battery mounts 8 12-pounders,

Whine ote ene
26 FARE ENG PEOPLE Orbe, arc edecen CME Ck AHN Bare eedde

cations, they unconditionally surrendered them-
selves, and gave up two other forts, nnd one other
battery, without discharging thelr guns; also, very
extensive barracks, capable of accommodating
20,000 troops, together with forage safficlent for
their accommodation for thirty days. ‘This isa
valanble acquisition, ‘The [stand is twelve miles in
lenvth, and two miles wide. Pts natural defences
are almost complete, and it is the key fo all the
inost important points In this State, and enables
us to place a strony Union force behind the rebels
at dtichmend, The rebels bad a force here of 35,-
000, cousisting of Infantry and Arullery. They
cominanded three forts with Oventy-eibt 82-pounl
ups, aud two dodand battendes of five 1pound
guns, malo a grand total of thirty-three puns, of
These forty and batteries

woe >

PO a eee Ea eu - fe

the most approved style.
have Deen constiaeted by the blacks, who hive
heen brought here dn Inge inher, and are now
Jubilant at the soceens of the Stars and: Stipes.
They have dnforined a, (aad thelestatements live
been continmed by the native whites,» Cut the
rebets did) not dntend to give trang quarter, tid
thei arins proved vletoriogn,

Keb, Uh. ‘The vietary da completa, Elizabeth
Cary, twelve mien nbove here, war attneked by our
fleet yenterdny, and after no oshiavep and bloaidy en:
papement, the rebels burned the city, and lagtosd
Otaly Hed, leavdag as dn fall posession of the burnt
Cily, rome heavy goats, thaee patoboute, and we
rehoonean, ‘Phe Captain of he rebel Navy, and
Git nee new bediage

Wooo

alytecn pollian, nisendeaed,
Dred, di boner of the vletory,

A LOT OF CIHTDS,

"Whole yous dnpaied i huty teacher of
ndubbertly boy whe tie intedy Jotned the class,

Pret baw Eo nab boo,

“Don't knowl you ont to ho ashamed ot
vorrard nies fourtern veri add, ‘There da tetbes
Filaterns dis teonty thren, fe ena tell, G diwe any

rete hers, Dele. whe anele vane’

Pal Hoped (ho dohant prodigy,

“There, anid tho teacher tdmmptnntly.

"OE banew base coup hae,” nail they aty piel hay,

Why nol’

Clageser bedad bate tittle: that age adnece dee ware
armed 2

Ate Gededarapicty anttecreddaye ae Cpanilcen see tba
Toererel ay veotennge $a leseeed snnsadea: thie footw deg, aaiiennce
preened  Deecetaveey anack abate, Pines qeeodiere tee nat
ry seebeegebten ot the Band Cheb, Se vere, aide
Pat, Cbth ne be fabera, ened be will been tony tints
before ye cea yer father die diay 2

Miata,” antl the haoper at the yt ot Wenn
Hagetons Gineeten, Cb eneatat porialt yout be tale yoo
thoagt Vraten these praveedocne

“Pan't soe ane, ony good elo, anid Che diety,
preety te cerned cof cba enta Tietee dao dee geen Tavnd,
‘hae Hla eat, aed wot wat a

OM avelsue coded tit flea pen, lataatly eodtontig he
feet od tide veden, (Eley verter pcan toe dey: tind
tahoe, Pscew acer cteneby, ley lees sted cof Clas qoute al
eyece dine dena yore Uainver Preeig tee tema ana dae pede tne,
FLU EMR PRE

Haran nor a Peter Cire A paaches,
Wipes Hort deeb debt ter ape eb Che poopie donate,
be snsceheed Tene (dentally:

“Hane ot the apbidene dosite wa any oll ran,
Hellen cned beget edeedig, Prom eh Geet eld
her Dobe cedaadeveed Iter ee deere, Mee ted ateravede LE nbn
Hel did awallowed phe beter wei worablpptar
Gi, tree sore edecentot weetebed reves pourhend ledenoeds tev cteat de,

 Marthon, thes end et the wordt da contigs
Whe orhea yo Hath ce elit Ce thee
Vreewoeren sv lait yesed mantel Cred ane prea ced Note geil
‘ hope
ae Cee deet Pele toate: dee ood

A Jully abt darhey dawn aacth bog ht tliat
ay bee ey do eny Toad, suneed wv been DE eeotgpenereneeed cgndrebeage
foo gored WE etude bila coil, Wiha pale why be
Med e breetge dea Dnt cate debe treet die cegelind De
font’ conden beeoeage le Dele whe ay caves ceney jp bevel
V'Devnageer ber tramoags, Hd Ties Caples Trey boas ceavay pevegqoen
iy"

A lewyee Vote ttpnedh an elien fie thes fri at a
heeigten, de ala aqua. Thanaveliy ab thi atin
fereer aitenedtidd Cher attention of nota Ledalain whe
wenn privmalinge Foy j Obey covalent Full etoage antl elev oud
the balliye viwy coltleatly, ‘The lawyer, sane
what Magar wt Cate crandaetty, Otel age thee
wooden, qed dole Hasaed col, send aeltineaned Haein

OND ole sate etsuted OMe nes Mh ae gonehe al tek
Haale pena at ty atic 2 Whe yee tides to at
chase!

"da wend cnet dion, ob wae Cibob tage ae
TT RCO CC
aed"

AWAY DOWN SOUTIL IN DIXIE,

MASSA KWON OUT, AND CONTRABAND BWOKN IN.

Besos Banacns, dan. 2h—A few days sinee,
White passing the quarters of the Ist lowa Cavalry,
wader the command of Col. Fitz Henry Warren,
we heard a warn and angry discussion going onin
the rear of some of the conmpanics’ quarters,
Thinking that there might be an fem pleked up in
that vicinity we passed through into the ynrd,
Where wo discovered a group of soldiers gathered
around two persons who were cugayed ina warm
discussion, We recognized one of thein as being 2
corporal of the company, who had evidently been
onjoying, very recently, the clevating benctits of 2
pass beyond the guard of the barracks. His atti-
tude was of that erect military character prescribed
in the tactics of Scott, Hardee and Macomb. His
havelock was thrown well forward, while his blue
overcoat dropped its lnppels and collar gracefuily
back from his shoulders, exposing to view his
brawny hands, the thimnbs of which were hooked
with an air of enrelessness into the armholes of his
vest, while his fect were spread well apart, giving
to him that peeuliar atthtude that so happily com.
hines the military student with the Western orator,
His opponent was a little, old, snappish Missouri
planter, with a parrot bill nose, and a profusion of
red hair that hung in festoons from the low
thatched eaves of his forehead; the whole being
surmounted by a white slouched hat, a long surtout
coat, with a hemp bed cord protruding from one
of the pockets, and the everlasting butternet pants
completing the prominent exteruals of the Missou-
tian. Judging from the stylz of their language,
both had evidently been born and raised upon the
frontier during those peaceful, sunny days that
preceded the inauguration of school district quar-
rels, But whatever had been denied to thei in
edueational attainment,nature had amply accounted
for by the bestowal of a larec amount of pugnacity.
Kt appeared that old Missouri was the owner of a
travelling contraband that he bad been pursuing
for several days, and had lost the trail in the imine-
diate vicinity of the corporal’s military jurisdic:
tion, and it was this negro in connection with the
institution of slavery, that appeared to be the sub-
ject in controversy, and which had awakened in
the disputants that warmth of feeling and excite-
ment which often overleaps the rules of decorum,
until arrested by the bland and courteous interfer-
ence of the presiding umpire; but there being no
umpire here,the discussion went ficreely on, Pres-
ently old Butternut let loose a position on the side
of slavery which was entirely new to the corporal,
who was evidently not prepared to answer it,
which his opponent quickly discovered; when he
immediately commenced pressing his argument
with great force of languege, while a bitter grin of
triumph seemed to illumine the features of his face
and wanton among his shaggy locks,

It was evident that the corporal was getting
cornered, while the winking of his eyes, the
spasmodic twitching of the museles of his face and
drumming of his fingers upon his vest, all indi-
cated a leaning of the mind toward a belief that he
was vetting into a right place.
Bat suddenly breaking through all preliminary
rules, he grasped his havelock in his hand ani
waved it eracefully above his head, and as it de-
scended upon his uplifted knee, he exclaimed,
“See here, old hoss, 7 be d——d if you get him;
and now that ends it; and if you don’t want your
wife to put a patch on the scat of your trowsers
you'd better be making aacks from the neighbor-
hood of iny toad-sticker, d——d fast!”
Here the laugh came in, Old Missouri. slid.
fowa was declared victorious and the group with-
drew to theivy quarters, headed by the corporal,
moving with a dignified military stride. Ilere,
after removing sundry grass stacks in one corner
of the quarters, a Dlack, glossy negro, apparently
about cighteen years old, was broneht forth.
Had he lived inthe palmy days of slavery he
might bave led down the dance on Congo Green
at New Orleans, without a rival, in that rieh and
luscions combination of negro perfection, so eapti-
valing to the eve of a Red River planter. There
Wasa grin upon dis countenance that alternated
with a solemnity of expression that indicated) an
uncertainty of mind as to what was to be his fate.
Tnnumerable questions were being propounded to
him, when the corpural advanced, observing, “See
here, Dixie, befure you ean enter the service of the
Vnited States vou must be sworn.” “Yes, Massa,
Talo dat,” he replied, when the corporal continued,
“Well, then, take hold of the Bible,” holding outa
letter cnyelope upon whieh was delineated the
goddess of liberty, standing upon a Suffolk: pig,
wearing the emblem of our country, The negro
grasped the envelope enautiously with his thumb
and fore finger, when the corporal proceeded by say-
ing, “You do solemnly swear that you will support
the Constitation of the United States, and see that
there is no erounds floating upon the coffee at all
times?” “Yes, massa, | do dat,” he replied. “I
allers settles him in de coffee pot.” Here Le let go
ofthe envelope to gesticulate by adownwe cd thrust
of his fore finger the direction that would be given
tothe grounds in the future. “Never wind how
you do it,” shouted the corporal, “take Sold on
the Bible.” “Lordy, massa, [ forgot,” > he ne-
gro, us he darted forward and grasped th velope
With n firmer eliteh, when the vars eet ined,
“ond vou solemnly swear that you will st tthe
Constitution of al the loyal States, and + ‘ton
the plates when cleaning them, of wipe usm on
your shirt sleeve.” Here a frown lowered upon
the brow of the negro, his eyes expanded to their
largest dimensions, while his lips protruded with a
rownded form as he said, “Lordy, massa, T nebber
do dat! falters wash them nice, Ole inissis
mighty dekler bout da’ “Never mind ofe mis:
sis,” shouted the corporal, as) he restimed—"and
you do solemaly swear that you will put mitl in
your coffee every inerntag, and see that) the hms
ne net couked loo nieh or too Tittle.” "Yes,
massa, Edo dats [se a good cooks” “and lastly,
condnued the corporal, “you de solemnly swear
that when this war ix over, vou'll make tracks for
Afvien almighty fast? Yes, massa, Edo dat. 1
allers wanted to go to Cheeecarge.” Here the reg
mental drams beat up for dress: parade, when ‘Pom
Renton (that being bis mune) was deelared sworn
in, nnd commissioned chief cook Lygompany K, of
the thrat lowa cavalry,
[From “Among Ue Pt
A CILARACTERISTIO OF TIE “PEC
Tron,”
Durhig an interview whieh the narrator had with
one ot the aged ayggresses belonging to the planta.
Hon the following ciatogae aeenrred
“You were the Colonel's parse, Aunty,” Psakl.
.tnve you ndways Hved wlth bia?”
“Yea, aie, aller; Dondssed dm, and den de
chikben Albab fom,”
OH tho ehitdren?
Datone | Miss Clan
Wal, he habe’, massa, only de boys,”
Whit boys? bnever heard te bad sens,”
“Nebor head of young Missi Davy, nor Massa
‘Tommy t Eadit ve aced Mason ‘Cominay, ae!
Tommy! Powan told he was Midian 2
nen?

“Soho anes Maw Davy bad Aer long afore he
Had nota

The tod divhed pon aes bat eontd tebe pos:
De? Wine bin Senth Carolin or by Utah?

Wheret Mach Pe

Tho ob wom hesitated: ainaiment, as dt in
doubt whether ale bad not nat too much; bie
Selp quintiy cepted,

“Shon Jeans what
alare P*

“Wa adaee 2 dbeon’t be ponnitte; abe da white!

“Noo onus abe un braek, and de Cooned's
atlave!?

Nat toweary the seader with a fon repetition of
negeo Engi, Powill teeth fa beter whit Ugtranedd
frome bones convertion with the tee bhieles,

Minutiae wie Hie daagehtee of EN Gos,
of Virginia, by a qimrteron wo, She wen bord
neal, butwis vehnowledgedd an ber uhor'nebttd,
eh reared te tin filly, wit dda logdilinate ebdl
den Whee ale wi ton yenta old, ber lather died,
itl hia entate puovdage diobvent, Hh land and ie
Heros were Dealt inden the duane, Hla dung
tory, tore ern Teaes agg Feces denacepalitedd, wad Havent
Head anhalt with ais other property. Phe Col
ened, Hhon diate of age, ae verdes Maat fordine,
Howeht bot, ated took le to dhe seater at lite
imothes i Charteetan, A gevernoa wan provbliel
fr eo ed ved or two alien Heed, be Wier taken
toe te North te be eden ‘Chore ale wie We
qtentty: vfattad by the Colored, and when heen,
Tee competitor waa ated Tit abe wae wbllerd fore
He bone he eamvevedt fen da (ee plantation,
hive ti eddy aon, Ded, wits anne afterward
Toon, OME Bie? oftetiba an the asciatan,
Wii the ehtld wad two yond tld, Iwo it tis
Chee ad dhe yee neytienn, aly nveannipunites tho
Colaed te barrage, whore dey rerabiid fr eveay,
Huhne qionity, athe Jota! vnotliw year Wen Novel
ATTYETUNT CRIA WELLL EMR AT LU Me Ck oe DC
wore ly Hantadted) aa fla uidatvea, nnd bid aver
abive proabted aver tha domyeatte ately lie wits
WDrvad cnnved gevonecE Cee Ghian ptanpteqenay, welnee wiereer yreatly aM
Hse dusted too Dees, aver anette ak Clee Cohn wealth
Wan li teh i colhnt Ginter at the oatate

Hy vousa star Cs beleghe ot "yee r Manan rove”
He Catone) nenoebeel iho preasig weit, Heit lily tie
dpe COW betveovediedre at tla lott tava vette ddan
witty Miter d! MO RROTCOC ML Roe
Aovtnnevne’! colvsonaded vastaseaton cote Otro qateeantanenty, we (ta
TITEVIKICL I WTI TLCS ILORCeST CLL | Wheat
ab dhe yoae, be Cadteaton, wit when ab tha hanes
nteiel, Cork Hello fetatead be fonatte pitiene, On
HWE OE hep viaiie to tla ghintatlon, bvelte yonrd te
Hoves, brow cbisnngg toon, Mbdae (Yanna, vate Fen te, ood whith
Gon au avesusde , cnsned vepnolasy: dtuee ccengaue coneod) Mavelainy t
Peeaetead He Colonel wiih anon, Aho tel Phot,
Of who D lavve apuhom, Aa dh eeioy want a
nave, Har edilliay were an alae ne chet bheth, bat
doy Lind boot mmiitiead hy thet dahon, Oneal
AFoecnan Avante Hovohingg cebnneeteod fae Cberneg ail TE wate
DaudesneDotnd eDaee faove de alienated apne qhobe Hved tinal
cattery, Clee Cubted die dhe Mai Hendon ate Hvdaaguatn
Vader Dope Con ODvanderenvese auerequnde Cgopy aveustand poeattdoann at Ulu
Heath ‘

Aco oly Vindale thas atone, Oe ab weran aid,
Matouge Uae hat aagsn taney dened fo olay Mt baat Migr Hot
ho debe ato dealing anh ha ent help li, ina
alas’ [vse cane ggussus (day ates gutiggetla. |

Plowhal at nny watel, iwi nent dnte'stoeh,
Pcevaer deo quer

y

LIAR INSTITU:

Dthought the Colonel had

’
AY

ni

Aunty aim de Cennel's

(From the Woatrilnster Review for January, 1862 J

— "The Unitarians have done a great work, but
thoy might have dono, and may yet do, a greater,
They possess now more earnestness, more trained
captains, and 0 larger numerical force of regimen-
tal rank and fle, than they lave done at any pre-
vious period of-their history, They have no ‘Trine
ity, no devil, no everlasting hell, no natural deprav-
ity, no vicarious satisfaction. Heretles who may
reject thelr overtures cannot treat them with the
inoral indignation with which they fairly treat the
older theologians. ‘The heart can bring no accusa-
tion of cruelty, the conscience of fnjusticc, or the
intellect of slavery. Their theory of the Bible al-
lows criticism as free as that of Mr, Newman or
Mr. Parker. ‘The aze and authorship of the books,
and the qualily of the moral and religions teach:
ings, are open questions amongst them, ‘They arc
the Protestants of the Protestants, and carry the
right Of private judgment to all its consequences.
They jue ge for themsclyes as to the historical reali-
ty of the miracles of the Old and New Testaments*
ft is not necessary for them to number the stories
of Babel, or to measure the height of the watery
walls of Jordan and the Red Sea. Perhaps none of
their ministers believe in the Miraculous Concep-
tlon, aud many give subjective interpretations of
the Resurrection and Ascension, They appeal to
the human reason, heart, conscience, and soul, as
authoritative judges, and rejase to bow them either
to Old Testament or to New, to Prophet, Evange-
list, or Apostle, In practice we know that they
have sometimes fallen below their theories, and
that it has occasionally fared hard with both minis-
ters and laymen who have applied recognized prin-
ciples in an unexpected and too logical way. The
howl of horror which erected Theodore Parker is
fanitiar to all. Yet they who cut him off said
nearly the same things in a more misty and round-
about fashion, aud his crime consisted in plain
speaking as much ag in theological heresy. It was
American narrowness, however, that persecuted
him, and Lancashire invited him to her pulpits
when those of Massachusetts were closed. But in
England and Ireland the same spirit has several
times manifested itself, though the becter men
have put it down, and persuaded its few devotees
to trust the instinct of progress, and murmur their
conservatism to one another in low tones. At
present, here and in America, the Boston herctic’s
interpretation of Christianity bids fair to become,
in the main, the dominant thought of the Unitarian
Church. Its writers speak of him with an affection
that no minor differences can covi, the foremost
thinkers in the English branch have honored him
always, and his American enemicg have half expia-
ted their guilt by their tears. In proportion as the
promise of fundamental oneness with him is real-
ized, the Unitarinns will be able to prevent and to
cure the Secularism of the working-classes. Yet,
at present, there seems a strange unwillingness in
many quarters to let their Known private sympa-
thies take public authoritative shape, Our of their
one hundred and sixty-two chapel libraries, we be-
lieve that no more than twelve permit nis books to
circukute with those of Channing, Priestley, Bel-
sham, and the more mildly-spoken Procressiunists.
Of the book and tract societies on a larger scale, we
believe that none do it. Just after Parkers death
at Florence there cecured two curious instances
amone the English Unitarians, by which they con-
trived to express their admiration of him without
any formal declaration. At the meeting of the
Lancashire and Cheshire Provincial Assembly at
Preston, the mover ofa resolution was obliged to
withdraw it in the very fice of evident and wide
sympathy with its sentiments; and the Brirish and
Foreign Unitarian ociation, meeting the same
year in London, was rapturous at the mention of
Jarker’s name, while it will not adinit a sotitary
book of his into its catalogue. But, in spite of this
institutional conservatism, there is no religious
thinker with whom their ministers and laity have a
heartier zeneral agreement. A popular edition of
his works would be a healthy nionement for former
backwardness, in- harmony with the underlying
thoucht’of Unitarianisin; and a boon to the people,
Whose cheap theolovical literature is at present
nearly limited to Orthodox triets and Secularistic
periodicals.
Such a work would: be a fitting auxiliary to the
celebration of the bicentenary of St. Barthulomew’s
Day, and a siznitieant: memorial of two centuries
of zrowth. [f, then, this seet wonld exert its full
power over the working chisses, or be a pioncer of
progressive religious thorght, its members must
he boldly consistent, and care more for trath and
growth than for quietness. They will flourish as
they remember that

“LLonors best thrive

When rather trom our sets we them derive,
Thaa our forezoers;”
and prove their heirship to all the aves by the de
votion to the work of today, ‘They have been
over-prone tu talk about the sacrifices of the old
Presbyterians and) the battles of Priestley, and to
dream that they can win) sovereignty by reposing
on ancestral Intrels. They area various-ininded
race of men, Who have never yer risen. to the level
of their duties. Some of them are too old-fashioned
to Hke progress, some too tolerant even for
propagandism, some gradgingly deal out. bread-
and-water for the nineteench century while uhey
build pranartes for tho abundant harvests of the
He OF tao cand of te misty ghory
solvable nebulw to care about the sun who
makes the daylight in whieh they live. Till re-
coutly, they have treated the peuple ina shy man
ner; but within the last cen years they have spent
£17,000 in building chapels for chem, and have
now many congregations composed nearly exclue
af the working classes. Several missionary asso:
ciations have fately been originated for the pure
rose Of sproadimg a tree religion. Manchester,
fast Lancashire, the hundred of West Derhy, and
the West Riding of Yorkshire, have taken promi:
vent positions in this work. Even the Provincial
Assembly of Lancashire atl Cheshire—an assem
bly more than two hundred vears old, and tending
to conservatism, exelusiveness, and ayistoemule
fecling, on aecountol its age--atler several severe
fnternal struggles, bas thrown of dts apathy, and
lends the van. Te the Unitarians will bac be
thoronghly fiiihfal to thelr awn feo principles,
and pet orld of what Theodore Parker calls fa
damaged phrasvology,’ life and usefulness are in
store for then; and Hasan sect thev dle, br will be
when, becoming the nucleus et a larger church,
they will re-lhgnt the candle ar Latimer and Riley,
Koghind will be Hiaminated by the dros in whieh
they burn, anddeauth will bo theiy cide to miiversal
dominion,

Religion ding nothing fo fear from tnquiry, or
trom: Ayghtines, persecution, and oomrtyntom,  Uts
worsteneny ts ostugoation, and: whon it sleeps in
scornbig aatory an the past, ne one Hitting a voice
writin all eryvdog die cher is ne mere ta
ho discovered, then, strely, it ls on its deathbed,
Ve thrives by conttot ant by dissatistvetion, and the
peace of God darsunshine dearest and Iiigltest
when de comies lous atbist (he storm. Ohb forines
of speceh amy pasa away, ald ideats may be lett be.
bind, uid ited chat aw seni cturanat ny
crotoble or he outgrown, butevery thing whieh hax
therholit to dive will tsa dive the streneth to
lapel nt death. Relighon’s wpresentitive men
thee trom earthly dedeat to spirited aid liamortal
thirmpho Greek theism owns nurtuvd by the
poboningy at Sacrates, and the cracls lon of desis
rooted Chadstiantty inthe tte ed the workl Phe
extreme naheliel of the worklig chases, aad (he
haditioventiony and it concealed scorn of many who
stave thede koresdes without staring dots rank,
wit dhappear only bethie a Ave and Catholic
filth that wollte and works wher tt atoes
Hot row, tithes Nature paranioiat ever savied
hole denis Gad ti couseimee, and watches
the werklops ot Eby will dn hoe grewel of
actonee and the dow ef biter, Ulaaadiy has
abvaya vearned afer anehoaw Ovi tt de the
Divine spirit whieh dione shape er atettien ander
Hew att Cheetos ion, ane wiiteth, with vans ing sneeany,
they aha todiaterprer, ‘Me Bible, che Valdas, aul
the Kori an reeanda ot attempt aliady nade,
Bach beara witieas fon sew buy thoaglit, leaves
tostidinedl ae quest, tit diy nae ated Fbeotella a Autiiy,
Noue da perdbet, Oe altars tomas gone de taal, for
wihase thlte, An chealagied, the race abandons
Hors dee ere, Gt Cho coon celligheis fetid ont
otwhhi te Choy apeiog, perentilly 1ves aid ablapes
Haolt atveab inte tovelley tovina, Tho Chrbsthamty
hota the ehuvehos, wid eg merely ad gas ible,
Tet ta Htaeenia to tive ondeted di dosthe Uelaiete
alain forthe an vor the thgheat atl (he boat dike the
Mosstat Go uiaateat art, ard Eller tte tialayis
ioe Che neaadateetildion et nadie, Aid they
ie die hoe helped Adonis who dvap whatever tt
HY pean ot the tianadend, and al new teil
Wu Hee prevnnantetet pete Gt, enbannbangy dee leu atbaagy elas alin
yet oma inetropaliian province fate that alactite
rollin whtete te the tigger all worlds, boli
it one wile netonee ail eb iieation, WH a Ae tn
fatleet aml tty HN, He paetice thes ners tee at
Tetanity, wit feeaapiation the fave at Goat?

tmwen

Cho eatitey tal attics of a Konoha paper be loca
Heed Crete atl: os er a reritiig eittee, amd thie od
Weeny cyn nce dDoay Cd angy onanel cd eeveveanadangy obads oon an seve ta deny
ct od tibe tead b Whit aseampertig Chon rid be
dhowtenven tda allie eotlart

Aci wa walhtag qulvlly: daw dh ativet,
Hie other diy when he wie atditoaly atieh bya
(houaht, ail a (iegee (hte cet ten,

~ Ter bbe preent that Neti allt net come ont
of ele ake deat) Che Tite oats he cane fare.

“= wuneaee
NEW VOR ADV EICEINEDUIEN TS,
Nv WUADN A tesstthk teal Bu
) sreytin, Elo Povakdand ot Mn dhy atetietle toy (tied
Hort Loy cebl eee deentpd at Fa nonte Agito want oan y
when Aditae EAAE RAE APREIUN, bE look sera tied,
Naw Vik Unt

M APRA A LOCH WOO AHTOV ER RETEAE EMEER
AMUN ANE UR WOR ROR EEODEEUR, FSF COEEL ANDY
FUTURE, NE VOHety Diteagiliey Ebina, Uieenen, a piton,
Pitseverta, Meteor ance, Cessna, Dilitvaore Atealea, Phowe, aul
PRDICT alma, habia: Wabena, Vnnenans, sneaitny, mud ating pete |

nay la we atey

VUelela hey Aaiey (a Vehoa ail Wwe; Watetinda, tans
wiviay Hagepe Alvsoray Chavey Mtvlbaraes May (abbey thay th
alah Uratlas

Alo cbaretone ied Vingatebbe Mowute vt ott Abide,
Hgrresbnd ont becant dingy pba ony ay auagoyety Ueeag aendyyaneada den Matt
Ovebrea Dane Hae H adiodted, aint eabalagiied nend ahony
applind Au.
Qievtovs Uso qqeeveaba aterk Ton avtng Wlbaee PL te aa tbat toed ly ated
(ny ACUTE Lat Chany

Ret NEW YORK VIA PROVIDENCE AND STONING-
. TON, Unbin ysreaze 82; Derk @2. Care leave the de-
pot of the Heston and Providence Railroad, Pleasant strent,
daily, (Rundaya excepted) at 6.30PM. Yor steamer VaN-
DEABILT, Capt. J. W. Williams, Mondays, Wetnesdays. and
Fridays. Yor steamer Commoners, Capt. J. C. Geer, These
fays, Tharsdays and Haturdays. A Taggage master aresan-
panies the passengars’ baggage through ty New York. Rage
pane cheeked through W Philuletphia, Baltimore and Wash

ngton. Tickets, berths, and state-revma, secared at this
Office, and at the Beaton and Providence Railroad Depet,
4.0. PIBSBERY, Agent, 75 Washington strext, ie

~ Haytinn Advertisements, —

HAYTIAN Sitppise BUREAU OF EXIGRATION, }
48 Beekman strect, New York, Feb. 1, 1852. §

NAC Emigration to Hayti.—Arrange-

¢ EN ments have been concladed by which

p pemivrants can be forwarded, ia small

companies, by regular packets, to all
of the ports of Hayti,at the same rates as are
charged in our chartered vessels,

A chartered vessel will sail for Aquix, where
preparations are being made for an American set-
tlernent, as soon as acolony sufficiently Jarge is
ready for embarkation.

NEW YORK LINES,

The next Emigrant vessel will sail on the 12th
of March. She will toach at Gonutves, where the
February colony will locate.

. PHILADELPHIA LINE.

The fine barque AMERICAN, Capt. Christian, will
sail from Philadelphia, about the middle of April.
She will be permanently fitted up to carry fifty pas-
sengcrs.

ROSTON LINES.

The schooner Fearvess, Capt. Adams, 122 tons
burden, will sail from Boston, March 20, for the
port of Miragodne, direct. She can accommodate
three emigrants.

As the accommodations for temporary lodgings
at Se. Mark are already inadequate to the unex-
pectedly large demands made on the Agents of the
Government there, all intending emigrants are ear-
nestly recommended to select Aquin, Cape Hayti,
Jacmel, Cayes, Jeremie, Miragoane, Gonaives or
Port-au-Prince instead,—at all of which places am-
ple arrangements can be made for the proper re
ception of large numbers of them.

All persons desiring to sail at any of these dates,
are requested to give carly notice, personally or by
letter, to James Redpath, General Agent, Haytian
Bureau of Emigration, New York; or George Law-
rence, Jr., Room 3, Anthracite Building, Philadel-
phia; or, if they live in Canada, to Isaac N. Cary,
at the Western Branch Bureau, Windsor, C. W., in
order that passages for them may be secured in
advance. Hexry MELROSE, Cor. Secretary.
CIRCULAR.—No. L
To the Blacks, Men of Color, and Indians in the

United states and the British North American :

Provinces:

FRiIENDS,—I am authorized and instracted by
the Government of the Republic, to offer you, in-
dividually and by communities, a welcome, a home,
and a free homestead, in Hayti.

Such of you as are unable to pay for your pas-
sage will be provided with the means of defray-
Mio.

Two classes of emigrants are especially invited
laborers and farmers. None of either class, ot
any elass, will oe furnished with passports, who
cannot produce, before sailing, the proofs of good
character for industry and integrity.

To each family of emigrants, tive carreaux * of
fresh and fertile land, capable of growing all the
fruits and staples of the tropics, will be gratuit-
ously given, on the sole condition that they shall
settle on it and cultivate it, and declare their inten-
tion of becoming citizens of Hayti. To unmarried
men, on similar conditions, two carreaux will be
granted. -

Board and lodging, free of cost, will be farnished
to the emigrants for at least cight days after their
arrival in the island.

The ,government also will tind remunerative
work for those of you whose means will not per-
mit you to begin immediately an independent
cultivation

Emigrants are invited to settle in communities.

Sites for the erection of schools and chapels will
he donated by the State, without regard to the r+
ligious belief of the emigrants.

The same protection and civil rights that tho
laws give to Haytians are solemnly guaranteed to
the emigrants.

The tullest religions liberty will be secured to
them; they will never be called on to support the
Roman Catholi¢ Church.

No military service will bo demanded of them,
excepting that they shall form military companies
and drill themselves once a month.

All the necessary personal etfeets, machinery and
agricultural instruments introduced by the emi-
grants shall be entered free of duty.

Tho emigrants shall be at liberty to leave the
country at any moment they please; but chose
whose passage shall bo paid by government, if
they wish to return before the expiration of three
years, wilt bo required to refind the money ex:
pended on their account, A contract. fixing the
amount, will be made with each emigrant before
leaving tho continent. . ,

I havo been commissioned to superintend the
intersts of the emigrants, and charged with the
entire control of the movement in America, andl
all persons, therefory, desizing to avail shemselves
of the invitation and bounty of the Haytian Gov-
ermnent are requested to correspond with me.

Lshall at once, as directed by the Government
establish a Bureau of emigration in Boston, and
publish a Guide Book for the use of Chose persons
of Atviean, or Tndian descent who may wish to
make themselves acquainenl with the rmsources of
the country and the disposition of its authorities.

LUshall also appoint Agents to visit: such com:
munities as may seriously entertain the project of
omigmtion, .

Tnmedinte armngemonts, doth hem and it
Hay, ean bo made for the embarkiment and settle
ment of ene tndnad thousand persons,

By onler of the Government of cho Republic of
Hayti. Jauns Repratn,

. General agent ef Amigration,

Rosros, Noy, 3, 10.

® A carrean is 3 news and 3} rods.

OTROULAR.---No, TL

Gaspran Beene or Baa rarios, |

Boston, Dees Ui IS

Burenma and Agents.
The Corresponding and Shipping Rurwan of Eni:
gration is sitiatat in New York City temponuily
ats Bookman stevet, Ali fetters of inquity rvs:
xpecting Uayd and the Uaytian Movement, should
bo nddiyssed tome, thers Persons in Now York,
desittng information respectimg Tayi, verbally,
can obtain it Nour Heury Melsuse, Corresponding

Seoovlury ther, .

The Boston General Burcars willl bo situatad in
the Washington Buildings, Room 7,220 Washington
strvet. Miss Bo Howand, owho Heed seventy aus
vs tiissionary in Had), will angwer all Cho dq’
vies of intending: emigrants die Boston,

The Mitac pain Barve of Mndencion ts now
united tothe Thay dan Consttate- Andinvelte Builds
tog, corner of Walid and Second savers, (Rood,
Geo, Lawrences, de. is appolutat Aecing Conners
Agent of Unaytl dor Philadetphia, and Reshtont
Annie of Eniigration tie vnnaytvanda, AU tdtends
of the Movemons and porous desiivus of emi
ting, or of baiting the reliable Qeets of Hay dann
mil teed to sath on tin ac dte Barwa,

The Western Brancd Bureat will bo situated: at
the residence of sane NOCary, ac Witdsar, Canada
West, AUD persons én the Canadas, Olde, Michigan,
or (athe West, whe deste abt to enable hom to
neh the seaebeant, with rveelve Ue Mowat Wa
Cary, Whore they ribet sacgy as to heir dts
fer Aho ploncer Ha whieh every emigrant ought to
be prypaved dave He wilt Qtrnish thom with tekets,
aud WOU Chenr when te stu Pvegons Hy tng di
the States should! addives Mae Gary, Box ack) De:
tratt, Mlohhagany bet, if liv Camuds, dhey showtd ad
vfres hin at Windsor,

The Hawai will be opor Qa AGM. ed B.
M., overy week diy,

Files of The Pino and Pati will be Repo hon,
together wlll satel otter documents as omg ns
may ned,

The tittow Lig Qe denen ai the ator deat ans
olin: Vaewnte ed the Mover:

Mur the Ciinaiias, Caro ad Misia Ss Wan,
J. Wathi re. Watkins wilh lect en Thad
Urb (he nee ve inendieg de any part of Nowe
orn Gite, Gaited Michigan, er (be Caruatas, an be:
fig alaly notitled of a stesin te beat hin, and Quit
Pir paration have baer made die tbewweoptton, Us
hts Wil be, Petit. Mietigan. “Phe dton ty

yeHeeren ai vathoviced: Lecal Agene:
die Madness OW
AY Neneh, Vo

LN

Keoves, Vorcau,
He W Votes

Be Daa WV. AM. hand,

Mor Connecctiouts AST. Mouricon, New Milton,

Neeother pevseti a anthoartead to aetibe Abate,

The fellow ti gentlemen ave erpatiistig caloutos
Qe orboation to Thaw tl i dhe Sprlig, atl all poe
mae dete atintlier dtatlones, fy dhol wapecdiye by
CATH Hor ie eatiiented Go eoriayetdd wtih Eons

AROLC MECC ULARLONMO SAME LITILA UT Te RO

bot. Wathen, Poleda, Obte,

Vr PME Wate, Bl ptow, Otto,

RUUKO TOON COC ON OMAR CM OM RICO OOM IUCORSL DML Sy
Thhyr eanmerdal addy bho Cine and Ulan tout
whiter ine, af Mando S bat et all aahfocts can:
roebul adil (he lav dhin Movement, af Vea Poet
Cr reminder Ante eH he EAE Cone ites
afta, dy peepay a beter ia eoply ta Ait gaindinns,
Nrtonta naditveronit Wve ay portant lett, ateoukt
that (hee toteor, SPREE ath ltd thon be
Maatan,

Thon are Hew ne mae capian er “Phe Quitite 9
Vaaved, the ageatyttatte tet tton Wat Tay dans
Vapora Neo arhtet) contatiy a tale aynepals
eC EHO Qaehte, wlll ho ante Ca tieaddlivd at peendyet
eM tent pete mini “Phys Late eal Yat ot
Ab Wootwaih Gatton, EE Hoohinan ai, New Vouk,
WE AW vont Wr (iw Rintgranbe Eatitlon, and @t the
the Goma Ratton, panttage palit,

Ste nibore ef Fhe Phi iit Evtia, oF poeta
toplea of eae Pome, WH Taio, (ee, ba any
phrases Gatti to amlgrate

Erte TRUER, Genterad yaad

@ Exicration

‘§

winter. Due notice @m
sailing, through the egtamats:
Persons ing: ‘

‘all classes of mechanics.
tural Jabor is unlimited ;
this is not the case.

Til. Passengers will be charged at the rate of

$18 each adult from Unised States ports; from
West, $23. Children under eight wili be
charged half price ; infants under one year, free.

IV. Passengers, in all cases, mast provide their
own bedding. Mattrésses mast be four feet wide.
Each passenger must also be provided with « ta
gallon can for water, atin cop, atin plate, knife and

ork, a few pounds of soap, and towels, with such
extra utensils as may be necessary to hold
the daily rations.

¥. The amoant of begzage allowed to every
passenger is two trunks, or two barrels, or one
trunk and one b barrel. All freight over that amount
wi charged for, separately from passece
ticket, at the rate of 75.cents per barrel or 15 cents
per cubic foot from American ports. The amount
for all overland freight, phen advanced by the

areau, Wi tor im the
Eamon, Will be added tothe pausage money i the
goes free. All goods must be boxed up.

VI. The board provided for emigrants will be the
navy rations of the United Saates, minus intoxica-
ing spirits, which will not be allowed in our ves-
The following is the fare:

DAY OF THE WEE.

NAVY RATION FOR EaCH

{ l. ilsB iit

i Hee
Days. | il tet Sot let Bel.
iq! Seige =Sb2.2 5 Bs
if 055 Zz-HEEDE 252
SSLEBS TD 2SSstsaeS es
oz 6 & & & Bb oz ozozozoz pepe pe gi
San. Hed: Ft ft +2-d-2. 4 sod
Mon. (Mj 2} jf | t2 babi fol
Tues. 14:1; a $2.3.1:2, 1 ot
Wed. lid; 51 1 lgi2 beast il
Thors. 14:1: ,) ¢3/) 3231 ‘Gd
Friday 1-1) jd) | (22 $:1:2 mee
Sax 4 tere ster teil
$ rik

Emigranis are at liberty to carry, free of expenst,
additional provisions to be on the voyage.
Slight additions may be made to the navy radions;
bux the Bureau does not pledge itself to do so.

VIL As efforts have been industriously made by
unscrupulous men to misrepresent the conditions
under which emigrants who do not prepay their pas-
Sages, Will accept the offers of the Government of
Harti, it is deemed advisable to publish below,
in fall, the contract to be made with them. The
wonls in italic and within brackets (Mank in che
Orizinal) are filled ap to show precisely the terms
on which a single man can emigrate. It should
be distinetly understood, that no barrier whasever
will be put to any man’s return, excepting thar he
shall pay the sum of eighteen dollars before em-
barking for the United Stars, if he did not pay
for his own passage from this country to Hara.
The Government of Hayd, while they will wekome
all visitors, cannot reasonably be expected t0 pay
their passages. Hence this provision. .

The following is the contract with the emigrants
who do not prepay their passages:

—t oe

Articles of Acreement,.

Tats AGREENEST, Made and entered into this
(Aret} day of [Janxery], A. DL, ISG, dy and
besween James REDPATH, of » General
Agent of Emigration, on behalf of the Govers-
ment of the Republic of Hayti, and [Jobs
Sita}, lace of [Detroit, Michigan], and an emi
grant to Hayti;

Wirsesssti: That sai James Rodpath, on be-
halt of the Government of Hayti aforesaid,
ayrrees to provide a passage for said [Jokx Qnizh]
from the port of [Boston] to the port of [S.
Marz] in sald Hayd, in the [Brig Lani &
Haiti], leaving che port of [Bastion] on or abvat
the [edind] day of [January], 1881, upon the
Condiedane ) amaftor Rowing vie: .

Bicn., ace ce cae COMA] hereby ackrowmasd the
receipt of [a] ticket of passage from san port
of [Boson] to said part of [8. Mart], in Rayd,
and agrees during the term of sabi vorae to
provide [Ais] own bedding, and the neccesary
utensils for cating and drinking. |

Secondly, in consideration of reviving the pase
atoresaid, aid [Jodn Sxith] further agiwes,
that if he accepts a grant of land thom the Gow
eminent of Hayti, ander the provisions of the
law on Ruignttion, approval by tis Exuellency
the Prysident of the Republic of Hayti, Septents
ber 1, IRM, ho will repay to the Treagury of the
Republic of Hayti the sum of [egadtven] dollars,
Atwerican curtoney, within [Arve yeurs] tro the
daw of this cantract,

Furthermore, that if dram ay caused Sl [Voda
QaitA] sovs pore to leave Hayti Defdre the ee
piration of the corm of three years from the dans
of [Ais] arrival iu the Island, (rel shall pay the
AWwasury of the Republic of Uayti the sain of
feigAtec:] dollars, Atmeriant careney, 88 NYS
ment of expenses neurmad dy the avant the
Government dor [AR] passase ta Harti; dat,
nevertheless, with this express provision: | That
if [Ac] dees remain thove years in the Isard fhe
the dato of Pais] arvival mhenvin, and does rot
see dt te accept A rant of Rnd frm the Goyer
mrent of the Republic of Hayth [Ae] shall not be
rnin to repay to the Treasury of the Repaliy
of Hayth or any avnt of Government theread)
AY SHA Whatever on, acounat Of StH PAGAN

ly Wirssss Wusrsor, tho salt parties bare
herennte set thelr hands and seals the day ant
year above wrilten,
on ean Jadn QV}

LOS AMBS REnrare,

YUU. Emigrants must py theit expenses tthe
port at embarkation, _

TN. To aid entignits who wish to carty extra
ayotegy, Che Rr wit alow them, pov givin a
note parable to the Government of Havel) to take
sueh Creel fy de among ad wn doles,

X. The Barean wishes it to be distnedy under
steed, howoren, Chat mitless at Rast twenty ays
notice is given at intention to sail with tho amtaant
of Lagniage to be taken, ic will not held tell os
sponsible (0 secune & PASSE CLE RT OLE.

Xk Alt persons: desiviag: dubrnration why ty
tho movement, ane eontiatly divin te curmecpond
With the Gener) Burean, or persoally t visde t6
The illest ratoration will Be adored dbent,

XU Vatiat length et veya. var daartent to
twenty days, Jase Rew ary,
Goan dent oF Datyrudin,

CLROTLAR.--Na LY.
TRAV TAN Bere Oe EWa artes,
Boston, Augtiet 1) Tit,

OW Vealanad Taavels .

Th cigents and Urtendigg Daiawets ddoaty
Gentlemen o-- The ebtot dittoutty (hatha hiker:

ty prvoontad ibelh i caregyays out eo Pvt w

ear gnation tage tiscn Que the Bel baton Oana

ory Tive chfety at a oonsidenibas distance Qn the
cout, are aT avhtone ably qe delay (ho expend
ot petites i Bapecdatly doos mis abstaeds paveunt
itsoll av the caw af detvrding emigennts rating
ia tho Bultish Dn irene amid Qe Eke cites, DN
obviate if, various plane Rave boon tried, various
ehomtot have beer stagansthal: bat oxporenos bat
vtiowe that thay Gave not book adeguage fo he
Hosmenttine ad che eae. Tho bast plan ata nednt,
ail publlely adoptat, UE rageed: do aretiteds tit,
malty with aie other, bo abated, ae tee sw,
expordve, aod memes TE tae ho patrpase af
sorting Vseete Gen dhe Take cite ar daa the
port ad Tanita, dirwets ty Way

Tat bye any aeeamagemone dast vanptennt, Cam able
Te gtaTanitvn fo PA Fhe EXponWT aT BIL xHEh OMe
Bibs as (ho Agere a tbe Heruag ay aatent ad
Hifores, Nea a dawn, oe stadon ou the Givtt
Weatern Radtiaad by Qanada, Beoweent Rorente and
Witton cor fem Detoeil “Pbleda, Sandisk,
Clovelait, Ril, ae Raitito = at the batty af 0 vacd
Foy aadarlie, et ATiee Utadoe eG vate bal prio,
Waster atte ene Sy .

Whe Tisagageattowt inden thts aveangeanent wil
De Od the, te dace ATE parsers Riek ratte ae
dats GT HOt Co Cake Tomectioht Trinitaie avaen (he
settee, CHE Ge oblaliy auch ae they wish at New
Vouk ova Hav Rhartor taste ae Wet Wanted bit
Taw ti, but ouverte will to well to bring cap ey
tant deka and have AYeaw ATRL WH ata at Now
York, Gey (hety borthes,

Harlgvanta Que wlan arte Trgiite, deme Wun:
ay tyanula ail Now dorsay, anal fey ether Kiowtiti
Within ad) eniteat at Now Wark can Rave dhody Reta
ty that pore aatvaniont “ie mount botur adit ty
Cie ee RE WER hy ery AEA O° (he
Rovorwns ot Vay Triton tte ferme ot The ay:
tract they aga, [fea Chivalar te. Ud

Vourola wit mall Qua Now Yorks dy aocuiaqee
Witty dvda avearagemant, (aden tho Evin | AN
Tritt hag) eration Altra Bo Why (hows
tewllt ba talent 040 UN Cho dated of aallag WDE
thay als oranveny daya batahaid Eagewnta will

Wwe (ita Hwan, on tte Ayre Hate wl Wheat tive
RENT EEN CARN TESTU URL
wilaat pasallda Thoarent, at thor ot ailing of

NMOTTRTCRURT CUNY Ly KR COM ta nC

Gerow! lyers

)
‘
\

wa

INVITATION.

Hayti will goon regain her ancient splendor. This
marvellous soil that our fathers, blessed by God,
conquered for us, will soon yield to us the wealth
now hidden in its bosom. Let our black and yel-
low brethren, scattered through the Antilles, and
North and South America, hasten to codperate
with us in restoring the glory of the Republic,
Hayti is the common country of the black race.
Our ancestors, in taking possession of it, were care
ful to announce in the Constitution that they pub-
lished, that all the descendants of Africans, and of
the inhabitants of the West Indies, belong by right
to the Haytian family. The idea was grand and
generons.

Listen, then, all ye negroes and mutattos who, in
the vast Continent of America, suffer from the
prejudices of caste. The Republic calls vou; she
invites you to bring to her your arms and your
minds. The regenerating work that she undertakes
interests all colored people and their descendants.
no matter what their origin or where their place o!
birth.

Harti, regaining her former position, retakin:
her ancient sceptre as Queen of the Antilles, wil
be a formal denial, most eloquent and perempiory
against those detractors of our race who contes
our desire and ability to attain a high dezree o
civilization. GEFFRARD.

HISTORY oF
THE REVOLUTIONS OF IWAYTIL

SAINT AMAND,
Memtler of the Constitutional
of Hayti.

RY M.
Adveeate, furme

Book V
Translate] expressiy for The

{CONTINUED }
Pine and Palm.

During the strugzle, whose sorrowful results we
are about to exhibit, what was the attitude and the
action of the men of color and the blacks in con-
nection with these events? What measures were
taken by the Assembly of Saint Mark to ameliorate
the condizion of these two classes of colonial soci-
ety?

The slaves took no part in the first dissensions
among the white race: they remained silent and
tranqail. Upto that period they had been accus-
tomed to consider the whites as superior beings,

But wh st must they have thought in behoiding
these beings, of vaunted supeiorityv, desrading
themnse aud crimes? They were,
at first, naturally, astonished, then they perceived
the first ning within themselves of those native
yand selfesicem, which slavery
suppress: but which are never
compieuny extinguished inthe soul of man. As to
the men ofcoior, they maintained the calm and
acquiescence which they had prescribed for therm.
selves from the commencement of the revolation,
and to which they were advised by their friends in
Europe. Only, near the termination of the strug.
gie, did they, in compliance with the Governor's
appeal, Jend their assistance in overthrowing the
Assembly of Saint Mark. Excluded, a8 we have
seen, from allthe Assemblies whieh nominated
deputics ws Saint Mark; shut out from all political
and clemoral meetings; finally. dcnicd adinission to
the suomi lp. caesnDlice 2
vote the confirmation of the GétiaSal Assembly,
the men of color protesied against Uint systematic
exciusion, and agaiust the non-fulfilment of the
decrease Of Search 6th and Sth; but they submitted,
noswithstenling, to the authority of the General
Asscimbly, aa well as to tint of all the popular
wagietraries Which were established without their
participation.

The Asssmbly of Saint Mark, from the moment
ofits installation, chowedl that it represented the
whites tloue, Searcely was itorganized, before its
President yave tothe voluntecrs of Saint: Mark,
who ane) periniseion to puard its hallof session,
the instructions “Exelude rigorously, from with-
in and ergand these premises, porauas of colur anal
elares”

A sostinasulting order, at which the men of col-
or mnanifested a proper eenee of Indignation and
wound pride, Under pretence of a regard for
public safery, they authoriag! the violation of the
privat: Corrapondence of men of color; and thes
even permitted a deputy from LArcahaye to open,
In their tonite, a package of letters, addressed to
men Of colorin that commune, which had been jn-
tercepual and forwarded Wo said deputy by the Pro
vinelal Committe: *

The Avcmbly of Saint Mask passed a decree, be.
aides, puting a atop ty croaneipations: It continue
ally put aside, by postponucments, the complaints
which ine. of color presented, whether they related
to the annozanece and arbitrary Jmprisontents of
whieh they were the victiing, or to questions con.
cerning thelr condition. Tt cited te hte bar certalo
judge. who hed decrend| the liberation of same mnt.
Jattoce, and seprimanded ther, Tt constanly re
faved to men of colorany parucipation ja the ex.
cree of political rights; Steven refused the quads
fication of oative citlweas, lo whitexgahe had fori
a rmlatiiauce vitty whites whe hivl umarsled eol-
aol woment Thess inalevolent enactments
agadiet nen of color by the biyhest Colontal Legh.
OQutrapges,

by exce-

av

2 Of iiberts

6g Wee Cece LE

Iature, cuoboldened their permerutoras,
humiliations aud porecutions beenmne se jutalera-
Mie, that finally nome were found, among the vie
Wins, who daral ta repel force by farce,

‘The President of the Caminittce of Plalsanee, da
the Moth, debtor to a iaulatty of that: parieh,
nained Atl, to avoid paymentot hisdebt, subern
ean ot Ate. neighbors to denounes Lidia for
holding uatawlul saseimitleged,

Ye Caoysmnitua: cent (elie mento anrest Atre
fu hia ounce, danny the night, Atrel dared to de’
fend Miaselfiand woanded ceveral of his nssasdents;
Dat at the dostant that hie sprany from his cotture,
hoping la cseape, he vas shot down by a aitishet
Ponhhs bua head was consied to the Assembly of the
North, who complinented the nesozsdy. The truth

aayery neon apparent, nad the fupuecuce of the
Weitin tive sanifests but Wie ening retained an
punizhes.

San purtsh of the Weal, at Mauls Marlaten, t
white min ied uidatle ovned aljuliing eatates,
npen whieh i frequently happened thot dee entite
Of each respectively treapuseeds which, all wong,
Dal been given up tg exh other dna nelphbarly
suaNer,
Jeas, found it degnuting to Ive on term of equality
with one Of there nen who die re outraged
avery Uay with Jmpunity, aclaod the cattle of tls
aclyhbor and demuuded 9 double fing belare he
wousd yive themup, A few days after, tha smnn
Of enor adil, on Wis property in bids tara, the ent
He of the white nn nud refined to surrender them
without payinent, demacdag howerer slaply the
sineunt fixed hy law,

The white, idlynunt wt the suduesty of the ime
fatty, went away Ussentening to caterminata thin
The color) jinn, determined to defaul Wineelt,
Al Ma neighbors to his nadetapes. ‘The white
man come to attack plein vil twenty nen furnish
Aw him by the Cammittes of Batnt Mark. One
man of color wos killed nud several wounded s the
mulattoca, fidug bo thelr turn, billed Uhres whites
aineny, when Wor tha aggressor, ‘Tha whole ety
Of Balint Mork sosc jn aris. She mulattoes,
Whe hwl defundyl themnsul ved, Nel, tapether with

jutoue day, the white mun, who doatet

eratog af AN 22, VT. pfrerste ot May 46, Bish.

many others who feared the vengeance of the
whites, They were declared traitors to the coun:
tryand rebels against the whites ; all their possces-
sions were ravayred; their fields of sugar cane were
burnt, and finally, asin the afair of Plessac, the
property of the richest of them was confiscated,
Investigation being made, it was found that the
whites had been doubly aggressors; but the confis-
eations were sustained and the Ag ressors were not
at all disturbed, This was the first example of re-
prisals made by a body of colored men; and was
designated by the name of the affair of Fonds Pa,
risien, The Assembly of Saint Mark was exaspera.
ted at the tidings of this odious resistance, by men
of color.

A general proscription against the mulattoes
was proposed hy the elder Caradeux, and would
have been decreed, it is said, but for the interven-
tion of the deputation from the South, who defend.
ed the men of color and moderated the wrath of
the Assembly, It resulted in the rendering of a de-
cree which prohibited men of color from leaving
their parish without a permission from one of the
Committees,and the Assembly declared that it took
under its protection alimen of color who might
thereafter behave themselecs ina proper man-
ner

Inthe South, the principal men among them
were arraizned at the bar of the Assembly, where a
similar prohibition was announced to them; and
the President accompanied that prohibition with
an address full of humiliating and offensive expres-
sions.

The Assembly of Saint Mark, pretending to be
ignorant of the cause of discontent among the men
of color, attributed it to alarms excited by false re,
ports circulated by evil disposed persons; and in.
structed a committee of investigation to endeavor
to find out the authors of these alarms which had
a tendency to cause this class of persons to doubt
the intentions of the Assembly, and to ascribe to it
views repugnant toits principles. Whatduplicity!

For the purpose of excluding the men of color
from the benefit of the decree of March Sth, and
the instruction of the 28th, and to keep them away
from all the elections, the whites had recourse (o a
Machiavellian policy.

The Gazette de Paris, and other counter revolu-
tionary sheets, which were made to say that the
decrees of March were silent in regard to men of
color, only because they did not reeognize their
demands, were circulated throughout the colony.

This infamous deception was sustained, and car-
ried on, even by the Government; agreeing, on this
point, with the Assembly of Saint Mark; so great
was the prejudice against men of color among the
whites, and common to all parties.

But the men of color were not slow in ascertain-
ing the truth; for Raymond, in forwarding to his
correspondents in the South, the decrees of Mareh
Sth and 28th, had ¢xplained their true interpreta:
tion to them; and had informed them of the amend-
ment proposed by Grégoire, and of the interpreta-
tion given by Barnave. But, at the same time, he
advises patience and moderation, whether their
rights were recognized or refused. Notwithstand-
ing the advice of Raymond, the men of color had
felt indignant at the unworthy means employed to
deprive them of their yights, and many of them,
from that time, conceived the idea of vindicating
thein by force; but the great majority, yielding to
the influence of Rayiond’s counsel, inclined still
to moderation.

Protests were made in secret mectings; the men
of color of the parish of Cavaillou protested
avainst all the measures of the Colonial Asscin-
blies; and particularly against the acts of the As-
sembly of Saint Mark, but went no further.

When that Assembly perceived its inability to
contend with the Government party, it then felt
how impolitic had been its injustice towards the
incn of color, and desired to arm them against its
enemics; but it was too late. The Governinent
party had anticipated it; for the men of color, sin-
cerely attached to the mother country, declared for
the Governor, whom they considered to be the rep-
resentative of France. When de Mauduit invited
them to take arms against the federation of the
South which was advancing to the aid of the As: |
sembly of Saint Mark, they responded to his ap
peal and came to his assistance.

Ye have seen that. in France, the cause of col
ored men was warinly espoused by the friends o'
the blacks, but preéininently by two men of color’
Julien Raymond and Vincent Oge: we have wit
neased that it was owing to the cnergetic demands
of these two men, whom the Abbe Grégoire under-
took to represent in the National Assembly, that
explanations, leaving no doubt as to their rights,
had been sotemnly given by Barnave who brought
in the two deerces of the 8th and @hth of Mareh,
When those two decrees were passed, Gither be-
cance he foresaw the infamous manauvrce whieh
the colonists would employ in the colony to hinder
their execution, or because, yielding tow justifable
feeling of pride, he desired to share with his breth-
ren the enjoyment of the rights whose recog-
nition he bad aided in obtaining, Vineent Ove an?
nounced his intention to return ty Saint Donne’
Immediately the Colonin) Deputies, and especially
the Club Masniac, raised a thousand difflentties to
prevent hia departure, At thelr solicitation, the
Minister of Marine yave orders prohibiting dhe
Giibarcation of blacks or men ofcolor, Lathe sea-
porta, the principal merchanta and captains of
Inerchiunt vewiels agreed not to take them on bord
their vesucle; but whe National Aserrbly removed
thene obntacles,"by a deerce ansullingg Che arbitrary
orders of the Mingkter, Bat ont the instigation of
the Colonints, the iaunicipal authorithes enforced
them through the abnee of a peneral police rewula-
thon, Vineent Oe overcnine all these diffleautties,
and nbout the middle of duly 1790, lading the
Vigilanes of the Colontats, and furnished with let
ters of recommendation from the friends of the
blacks tothe philanthropist: Clarkson, he panned
gover Jato Bavlaid, under the apsdined ime of
Volanne, whenee he dmmedintely aalled for the
Cnlted States: thenes for Saint Domiaga, where
he andved on the 22d or 2a of October following,
Ju the rondatend of the Capo,

The nuthorities were forewarned of hin expected
arrival; and ble destruction liv been sworn by the
farge planters, even before bbs departure from
Frances, Shoapite of the watehfulnend ind preci.
fiond deed, Vincent Oped muaunaged to land without
Delo reeoynized, ‘The day followings bhsarrival,
he wentto his dwelling, situated dn the puri of
Donden, afterwards tothe bourke of ohm Baptist
Chayanne, his friend, at Grad Mivieres there he
by aot ef edlor, who
probably already apprined of didn ureival

wae ostirronnded wens

Ppaepen of Spall 9, V0
yu aK contAne.|

wee e .

HAY'TIAN PORTRY

.
We copy thefollawlag metien! pleee by a Tay?
Un walter from tbe anemeid Marloes Le Moniteur

Haitien, of Jaanuary DM: -

Gdeavnrthonnedr de 8, bare, le Myrésident a that,
eomporte par V, Levon, prafesseur it CU Meole na
franitle de Dente et retedtile le joer de Vesumen
cutennel par ‘Theéaphile Wocl eleve ite tadite
frole,

Perimettes quia enfant presenta,
Pine voix confise et emblante,
Les hotungged qa’in pable eoar
Dolt rendre teaon Dientaitenr,
Finke ceonnabssante
Mend votre iain pudecante,

Cai ont, cans répandes le ang,
CHasser ate odiews byran,

fea pores exultent votre pobre,
fe cetebrent ln vietolas

Pee seats pucitientenr,

Altiont Minter Vhomneny,
De vos boutes Ponfunece cat Neve;
far fontaine qal neta désaltere,
Les écoley ate woud apprenons

A pronuncer yotrs deus non,
‘Vout cofin dans cette ch,

Me pronve comblen yours almes
Jac ville ot je redid de jour:
Vatis Cea payed des retourd

Poor vous, we fob de fUntyars
Chague jour ma eourte peliea
fin hone Ia prospdr|id.

“Heantant est banjos exnued

Dini ing prefivettr es ges

Pour qu't man tur J pailnsu qarvir,

Me dtondre ino Vydablent

Chal, veillant ines Jeunes ad,

Comme tal, dea ppt ie respeetar

Je teavadl ot ie Eilertdt

s)o>

anaty

Haytian Burkau OF EMIGRATION,
. Boston, Feb. 22, 1862.

ContTRARANDS.—There is not a syllable of truth
in the statement made by enemies of tho Haytian
Movement, that the General Agent offered to the
Government of the United States, to expatriate the
“contrabands” at Fortress Monroe, or elsewhere,
without their own consent, or rather, without their
own free and deliberate choice. Ie only wished,
months ago, (when the leading Abolitionists of
Boston and New York were afraid that these Refu-
gess would be remanded (o slavery,} to have per-
mistion to send an Agent to them, and place before
them the advantages of Hayti. He further desired
the American Government to pay the expenses of
those who should determine to go, instead of hav-
ing the Haytian people taxed for their passage, and
the Refuyces required to repay the amount at thie
expiration of three years. His plan, therefore, was
three-folld—to snatch men out of the mouth of the
hell of Virginian slavery; to give, thereby, indus-
trious citizens to Hayti; and to have the Refugees
taken out of a land of slavery, into a land of {ree-
dom, at the expense of the American People. That
offer, however, was special, not general; it did not
apply to all Contrabands, but only to those then in
Fortress Monroe.

It is alittle amusing to hear men denouncing
those who say that the “Contrabands” shall be
colonized, and then adding, with equal tyranny,
that they shell remain where they are. We would
respectfully inquire—Whether one decision is not
as insolent as the other? We propose to leave the
slaves, who shall be inade free by the war, to their
own choice; to treat them as free men, not as pup-
pets, either for Colonizationists or Anti-Coloniza-
tionists to play with. Nearly all the Colonization-
ists and nearly all the Anti-Colenizationist leaders
that we know, seem to be equally inspired with the
slaveholding spirit; for one says to the Negro,
“You shall leave,” and the other, “Yous shall not
leave!” Emigration and Colonization are at utter
variance. Colonization means, force; Emigration,
free choice. We say to the free man,—Go to Hayti,
or stay here, as you deem it wisest for yourself,
your family, and your race; Colonization says, in-
eratively, Leave this country; and Anti-Coloniza-
tion, with the same dominctring insolence, rejoins,
“No—stay here and fight it out.’ “What shall be
done with the Contrabands?” Why, free them!
Thatis all. Free them, and let them choose whom
they will serve—their enemy, America, or their
friend, Hayti; Lincoln or Geffrard. Leave them
alone!

Jounx Brows, Jn, AND THE Haytran Jonny
Brows Funpv.—We are informed by our agents in
Canada that a person there jis lecturing against
JIaytian emigration; that she hesitates at no false-
hoods or violations of the decencies of speech in
order to damage the Movement; that, among these
fulschoods are the statements that JohnBrown, Jr.,
resigned his connection with the Naytian Bureau
because he found it out to be a swindling concern;
that Mr. Redpath betrayed Captain John Brown,
senior; that the money which was collected in
Mayti for the widow Brown was putin the hands
of Mr. Redpath, and that “he and his ‘paid agents’
ure now feasting over it,” &c., &e.

We put these libels on record in order to show in
the furure, that the advocates of Haytian emigra-
tion, like the agostles of every other beneticent
movement sinee the world began, had to encounter,
in its carlier stages, the most shameless slanders ;
and to prove, also, that the best way of answering
them is to publish them without a word of com-
ment. This person is now culogizing John
Brown, Jr.; yet it will be remembered that, last
winter, she declarcd that he said “he got $50a
month for advocating Hayti, although he knew it
to be a iniscrable place.” ‘Time will sweep away
her refuge of lies,

Fins Cuass Exigrant Vessens ror Harti.
Various vo geome ig Unvll buye
complained of the accommodations provided for
then on the vessels. We promised that as the
emigration increased finer veosels would be put on,
The following paragraph from the report of the
Corsesponding Seerctary at New York shows that
this reform lag already been commenced:

“You are aware, | presuine, that Messrs. Beeker
& Greve bave purchased another barque, which

cy intend to sail regularly between this port [New
York} and Hayti, Ehave just been on board of her,
and can only speak of herin tering of the most un-
qualified admiration. She has ample between decks,
and could carry about 400 ciiprants, The mate
told ine that she is 450 or 490 tons burden. She
rennds ing inuch of the New York and) Liverpool
liners; and, as far as regards the aecotmoudation of
emigrants, she could net be better, had she been
built forthe purpose, Pam sure you would like
her. She ispamed the Wilhelmina, Capt. Melwen,
and will bo ready by the You”

tgwhe

asean

Watkins’ Now Wrsrin Chun—Wimn, J. Wat-
King ix engaged in petting ap a Colony to sail for
Ilaytiin the carly partof May. fe will consist of
Northwestern Read his Circular, | Myr.
Watkins writes wider date of Pontine, Michigan,
Feb, 12:

“Dame having excellent meetings, and petting
Binigrauts atevery meeting, There are six or eight
here who will go out with me in May. ‘Two pave
te theiy panies for the 26th of this month?

“The worl? joes bravely on’

~ Mn ob. W. Durant, Carthaenn, Mercer Co,,
Ohio, under date of Feb, 7, suysi- -

"We ave holding [Miakeration} meetings one in
two weeks, Many appear to be yery maedh inter.
ested, Dat fennnoet aay there dion bright prespect
fora very large Fanigration. Our people, many of
them, have worn the yoko of desrndation so lone it
Ian conned to pallthelr neelos. Indeed the prospect
Of nomore perfect liberty dad apparently fost atl
chairman Anmerien, with all the eruel wrong it has
perpetmited on our ree, in apite of Ts amedial and
wnfent dawson preficdico whheh tia no equal,
jnany other qaarter ot Ue elvillzed world, in neil
good Cnough for them. ‘Phe flesh pota of Byypt
no MU their nous, they cannot even look toward the
Promised Land ‘They are Joined to their ldots,
and WHE net be ddvarced,  ‘Shese renuarka, of
coure, do not apply toa’!

Mel A. Carpenter, writing under data of
Lebanon, St. Clair Co, UL, Keb, 12, sayin:

“We hive about five tamdred persons of color da
this comnty, the deseendianta of French nad other
rluves whe were freed by a jadlelal deekdon of this
Shite or yy theby ninaterd, Some of when manhtent
wdlspostdon to betier thelr fortunes, and cdhente
thelr elildren, “Po do thit, Plave ndvined: then to
tandgnite te the dslane of dayth fb oend for ‘The
Pine il Pale for thoae de ny pelehborhood, al
nay toformation you anny beable to fiuruld them
in triets ar atherwine, nent loomy address, would
be cheerfully dlatebbated,

The dst of Tayehadfordi a better prospect to
coiints ofcolor at Chis thine than any other phive
helo upon the Tighway af onthonms, wie a poo
Governinedt, forte soibaned fins elit”

farmers.

Aa. George Wo Nelson, Vigan, Ohlo, writers
“You knew my nx tety tonite Taythiny hone,

and that oftantiy other poo amen ti thin paat al
Olle, Peontenplate going ont about the dat ot
April, with ivy flerh bbs Waller, ‘Chere wil be
none fabled yo ant thhs dpebaes bat beans
vouch for thom, a Poaceae you wil good amen, or
none,”

Mi, Gabylel Bell, Athens Co, Olito, fntenda on
Vyautliogy, with din Cisndly di Misch noe,

NOTES ROM EMIGRANTS,

Handa Gayder dated Dresden, Choad, warltea
from Si Mark, (ee, 25.) dat he tacts he pete to
oo light plough ene band earn mld,
mod ene oral saddle, Dboys dave tay far
fader process; Ets loeatlon ds olx oiflon worth ef Se
Mit homme 18 20; ore fourth mene aed ae grmaden
plot Onthe Wah) Meptember Doha ¢hrea nered
sendy dor Che qgdonyty, ane bye Cie Chane thie abi aen
qoneaties dD ai de hoped to have dn the aed
herbi af oom abe or cil tay cotton, com, &e,
My health da very pond Tastee Mg tid, Dyan
wel Proctor all jeda. Wo shall haven diye dottle:
wont noon

Charles Guithin writes Won Xt. Mate Geet tila
funded and tween three athe aaleral aya
dent on ths voyage by not havhag the things they
tended for trmedtates use with thom, Chia mhifor:
funcorowe fiend €., should ten warndag to othe
ers, Who neglect (ha Inatiuetions ofour Agents wand

getalony, final

Circulars. Let ovory Emigrant bear in mind that
if the Colonics with which he sails bring a largo
amount of extra freight, it may not be possible to
send it all by the vessel in which the Emigrants
go. Itwillbo sent by tho next following. Emi-
grants thorefore should not box up as freight, but
keep ina trunk, or a small box by itself, every-
thing that they will need on their voyage. Even
if all thoir baggage and freight goes by the same
vessel that they do, this rule should be observed;
for the freight musé be put in the hold, while Emi-
grants should keep near their berths whatever they
necd for use before they get to the Promised Land.

—One or two Enngrants write to us respecting
baggage they have net found. In every such case,
the vessel, we Dolicve, in which they were sent, had
not yet arrived in Hnayti. All baggage left in store
or in our care for Emigrants in Hayti, has been
promptly forwarded to Messrs Cutts & Cooper,
of Port-au Prince. Emigrants who do not find
any articles they sent, should apply at their Ware-
houses in Hayti. Emigrants in Hayti who receive
The Pine and Palm, are requested to make this fact
known to every one who may have had any part of
their baggage lost or miscarried.

—J. W. Dumin, formerly of Geneva, N. Y., writes
from St. Mark, advising Emigrants who can afford
it to buy a few barrels of flour to take with them,
as flour is quite dear in Hayti, He says “There is
a great chance here to open a little trade to sell
hardware and Yankce notions of almost every des-
cription.”? Of the American Consul he writes: ‘I
have found an estimable friend here in the person
of the Hon. Thomas C. Miller, our Commercial
Agent. He is just the man for the place, and is do-
ing all the good he can in teaching our children,
and in other acts of kindness.”

—Spencer Waters, formerly of Providence, R. 1,
writes from St. Mark, December 16th, with a post-
script several weeks later: ‘That he and his family
are wel’ he had had the acclimating fever but had
got over it; had bought a lot in St. Mark and
erected a house on it, which he had shipped from
Boston through the General Agent; that the Prov-
idence (R. I.) Colony are enjoying good health.
Ife then adds:

“There was alone lady, that landed when we did,
from Canada. She has got her land cleared and
Acr house built on it, while others have been here
from five to siz months and have done nothing but
quarrelied about the Government meintenance.
She is one of the smartest women that has landed
here.”

We have no doubt of it, friend Waters. Now,
let us have her name, toshame the masculine
imbecilities who come back and whine because they
did not get horses to ride out to their lands, as well
as free farms, and because they did not pick up
vold without trouble, in the strects of the Haytian
cities. [tis no proof at all that a mau is a desert-
er, or a worthless character, because he goes to
Hayti and concludes vot to stay there for the pres.
ent-for, he may not be adapted for agricultural
labor, and there may be no openings at present for
his special branch of business. Some of the best
men who went out, returned on this account, but
nearly all of them ‘Will yet make their homes in
Hayti, and not one of them go about like children
with silly complaints of discomforts, which any
Western squatter would consider Inxuries, and
thereby trying to inculcate the pro-slavery lic that
the Negro is incapable of self-government, that he
cannot stand up unless supported by the white man-
Ifa farmer cannot get along in Hayti,—the most
fertile and easily tilled island in the Western World
—it only proves that he is adapted to be a hewer of
wood and drawer of water,nnd should carefully cone
tine himself to that department of human industry
in future. There is no disgrace in being a hewer
of wood and drawer of water; but yet there is no
especial and dazzling honor connected with it that
calls for the vociferous declarations of the fact by

Cotemaa and others?

—Peijons in Hayti who wish to subscribe for
The Pije and Palm should make up clubs of five,
and givk the money ($10) to Cutts and Cooper, of
Port-nu-yrince. Send the names to us, the moncy
to them!

i MOVEMENT DOWN EAST,

DPaurrivn Tan 14. 1889.
” we ates ee

Th General Agent :—Deur Sir: One year—
perhay. che inost eventful in our national history—
has ciapsed since [ ree cived the appointment from
you uf Agent for Maine, of the Emigration Move-
ment to Hayti, so wisely inaugurated by President
Geffrard. And although by the exact terms of my
commission, Iam not ordered to mako a report,
annual or otherwise; yet general custom, as well as
a desire to inform you of my doings in the prem.
iscs, prompt me to give yutt some account of my
action during the year, . .

Soon after receiving my appointment, L made
arrangements for, and accordingly held several
meetings in this city of the colored people, to pre-
sent the subject of Hastian Emigration to them,
At these meetings, Cully attended as they were, |
endeavored to interest (hen in the subject, by pre-
senting the tras state of the Africa Raco in this
country, the prospects of their (tury success, tho
probable time of their fall recognition and equality,
politically and socially, and the law of human pro-
gress, as applicable to their situation, ending with
anecarnest appeal do them to embrace the liberal
olfers of the: Emigration Bureau, as one of the
means Which will have a direct, but perhaps more
important indirect influence upon their future wel-
fares The Jargest tiberty was allowed, and even ine
vited at these meotings, at the lasted whieh it was
voted by a laure anajority, Chat iC was inex pedtent
for the people of color in this city, to goo out) to
Haytil? But Phaye the pleasnve to say that three
persons, tho most dntelligent among thom: (as well
as athors) fivered the subject and spoke ably tor
1, ‘Two of these persons have since received np
polutments inthe Custom House inthis elty. (1
taention this asa probable proof of my vomark
nbove.) Pbave distributed dhe "Gaides?? and. the
papers yor sent ime ag Judlelously as EC could.
have made the aequulitance of many colored fin
Hes and persone, and tive presented dhe offers of
tho Barean to thom personally, with as muaeh judy
trent aud force aa TD could,

{have also corresponded with persons fu Bath,
Thomaston, Bromevieh, Yarmouth, New CGtouces-
ter, Mawtport, and St. dohn, (XN. Boon the subject
of sonding them Gules an) papers. AC short div
nce Panndo na vislt do the colons of colored: por
Hom NE Branawiel, whieh you alae vinktod, Taw
several fintllod; but the season at the year, whieh
how carded tnany of they to dens the wav in our
comptey, Whlelotnsetdes Duntieds of oll kinda, and
eapeclally thin Movenwnt, togethor witha prelie
deo whieh hey have toall colonization, at they
think, apringdag from a destres to “yet hem ont of
the countyy,” an the partof the white race, all con.
aphed te provent my maka an ealldieny Yvon
wong then for ane didudtehl army af oeeupe
thon’ al (ho hile nnd vallegeat axl, as Ubevently
hoped tosto, on aecountot thelr undoratandiag of
aycleuttural parnuits, and thelr bedag, ttn, die
beth qpuatiiiod te adhere the woll, a woll aes the
Workibwlele predietlee aggalane then,

{otinave than piven you a brat aketel of my
atownrdaldp. Your books will how cho mumbor ot
persone whi Ehave dndaeneed to poont to tayad
A few word of hope, vs atygeented hy ny yene'a
exporence, aeons only to remada for ime to itd,
Ad from the (et aanouncoment of the subject ta
tha New York ‘Pribine, tbave been digress
With lor vidio and: lmportance, va by every diay 'a
Histone, sunvel Chay vaperiuace Drotplt whthelt, thuave
become continee? of Ta vada a not only an die
portant waxing th the ents of tho univers
fiecon of the whole rieeol may, af whatever
calor bit, elie, cent ated of miteeosaltl oppas
alllon to tho dopradiog natlonal sla of our beloved
cobntry othwawlae ne tale

ta the apportion of nny colored: people te the
liberal offi ot eiigeation, Fain connated diy dhe
rotloetlon Mint Ueda beat rhit noni abeuhl reniadn
fa die comntey and Chat those whe vente tn etties
wie ot only the beat clvad foreman tithe eountiey,
bit be alae Hie poareat to We onda Haytie batetli-
cont ngelentiial dabareis bathe elwad wo wad nat,
P not altagettin, ail they ae do be tani da the
Contig, aid di die Henthorn and Middle State of
our Unjou,

Hoban not talstahen, Mie oxportonce and obser
vaitlon (tive tid dead clevetagiont the toed hit dhe
colored janes hie when conmbloved ly voli
tlon te the grent ane, porhapes Hulveranl prelates
aapeentamd Chocarn, Clee pride Mattias thoy ave iter
in fo naelat terequliton, i tha comaeqiont spill
Hoas Of The miinbor ol oceqpations Hey ave allowed
fo pronconte a livelihood tay are aetinlly: ttn tyeont
from miterlog, From paver, ar eriins, af any one
orton af noclety, UP the dy a Avot He peuha Jose lly

fi thom fb poland of intelligence, Indiatyy, and
viet,

May I bo allowed to add a word of confidence in
the work of Haytlan Emigration as I have under-
stoad {ts success during the past year, and hope
that more may be done this year to infuse an in-
telligent enterprising, virtuous, and, if possible, re-
lizfous element into the Island of Hayti, to the end
that that country and Government may be built up
in most enduring principles of justice, equality, and
liberty. Yours, truly. W. REEVES.

A NOTE FROM MIOHIGAN.

Aprian, Mich., Feb. 9th, 1862.

Mr, Redpath—Dear Sir: On the fourth instant,
atthe A.M. E. Church, we had the pleasure of
hearing a very interesting lecture delivered by Mr.
William J. Watkins, on the subject of Haytian Emi-
gration. It certainly was the most able Emigration
argument ever delivered in Adrian, or its vicinity.
I¢ gave more light and satisfaction on the subject
than any ever received by the people here. His
audience was large, for this place; and could we
have had more extensive notice, it would have been
much larger. We truly hope that Mr. Watkins
will repeat his visit to this place, as the former has
awaken quite an interest among the people, in favor
of Hayti—the subject never before having been so
well understood.

As a lecturer, Mr. Watkins js the man for our
people, as their curiosity leads them to ask many
questions of the goodly country spoken of. He
appears to forcknow what manner of questions
they wish to put forth, and without delay gives an
answer such as ought to satisfy the world.

This place has always been one of the strongest
Anti-Emigration places in the State; and [ have
stood quite alone in defence of the Emigration
cause, At present, more than half-a-dozen persons
have declared their intention of going ont soon,
—some in the Spring, others in the Fall. Among
the number, is Mr. John D. Baptist, a tanner and
shocmaker by trade, and a man of considerable
means; Mr. Johnson and daughter, and two sons
—one a blacksmith; Mr. Davis and wife, James
Raison, James Barney, and George Dausy, all
farmers; James Newman and wifc, and inyself
and family, which is four in number,

Yeeling much interested in the Cause, I not only
take leasure, but feel it my duty, to inform you of
the ple.sing prospect we now have of Coing some-
thing to advance it, and in helping build up Hayti,
and restore her to her former position and gran-
deur.

L regretted much to see the withdrawal of your
interest from The Pine and Palm; though as it is
only politically, I hope you will remain at the head
of the Emigration Bureau, as dur people in the
West have unshaken confidence in your capability
in carrying out the object of the Haytian Govern-
ment. We are satisfied that the Government could
not have selected a more suitable man to fill the
office; and my prayer to God is, that He will ever
sustain you in your labors, and crown every effort
with success and triumph. IT have the honor to
remain your true friend in Christ. C.W.Exuis.

LAWS OF HAYTI AGAINST WHITES,
DEFENCE OF THEM BY A HAYTIAN AUTHOR.

The seventh article of the Constitution of MHayti
is in these words:

“No white man, whatever be his Nationality,
shall be permitted to land on the Haytian Territory,
with the tide of master or proprietor, nor shall he
be able, in future, to acquire there either real estate
or the rights ofa Haytian,”

This article, naturally, has given rise to a great
deal of discussion, although the Haytians, gener-
ally, are strongly in favor of it. At the time of its
adoption it was, undoubtedly, wise and necessary,
For, although there were those who proposed that
the word Frenchman should be substituted for
white, yet, at the time, all the white nations were
equally guilty of the crime of enslaving the Blacks,
It was a measure of self-preservation, We contess
that we do not see its justice today. Why should
Englishmen, why should Germans, why should
Frenchmen, even,—all members of nations that do
not tolerate Slavery—be put beyond the pale of
Haytian equality? Like all laws that mass men by
races, it can only be defended on the ground of
political necessity. This is ably done by Dr,
W. G. Smith, whoso articles on the Mineral
Wealth of Hayti, have made his namo fa
miliary to our readers. «As his reasons, thus
presented, will interest many of our readers,
we quote them from a private letter to us.

The other side is briefly this: The white races
have extreme mental ewture, capital, and skill;
he remventing tham fram hecominr citizens. vou

thereby exclude a large intlux of these elements of
National power which would otherwise flow to
you. These ideas, however, belong to the domain
of Haytian polities, from which, both by inelina-
tion anda sense of delicacy, we must held our:
selves resolutely aloof [tis enough for us to say
that there ave citizens of Hayti who would like to
seo the white section altered or abolished:

soe oe. “Our Republic ig. progressing, as you
know, under the present: Administration, and if
her mareh ‘is not so speedy as our friends would
desire, Ubey ought, indeed, to be consoled) by re-
ferring to the fact that: Lastiis, in every respect,
mach better off than any other of the American
Republics, the United States alone excepted, up to
this time. ‘The white, or European: stringer, is no
whero so well protected and privileged as he is in
Hayti, In peaceable times he enjoys the greatest
commercial facilities, with) whieh che natives enn:
not compete, deprived of the same amount of for.
eign credit and protection. In moments of dit
culty and civil) commotions, dhe white mit is ex-
empt from military exactions, from political repri-
sulg, aud is serupulously protected, if noton ace
countot his individual merit and antecedent: dy:
menor, it is yet so, beenuse of the known power
of the country to whieh he may belong. He en-
Joys full sovial rights, and commercial seenrity, in
moments of trouble, and remains then the mouopo-
lizer of the principal portion of the commerce of the
country, while the mative triers’ shops are most
often Closed and his business stopped, every man
being mde, de feedo, a soldier, as soon as mithil
law is proclaimed, or the eaunnon of alarm is beard;
so that under all circumstances it may be said,
Without four of contradiction, Chat the position of
the white, or Ruropran resident, or merchant, in
Hayti, sin every manner superior chery, than it
contd ba any where else where the dihabinines are
less docile and contldent, and wherv the Govern.
ment being strong, might not be disposed) to cous
cedy too much, eo, . . . .

To splte the 7th Article of the Hnytian Consdtue
thon, and other restyletive laws, dacended at cay
tiie, In fltation of cho practice of other nations,
to protect and foster native enterprise and) didus-
try, the white man makes himselt a proprietor
Whenever [sults his titerest) to possess real estiutes
fe Elavdds and aids he does ander the convicdon
that dtis dolerated, though not legally permitted.
The white rman purelaises landed property tthe
te of lis tive wife, or of bby children when he
hovany. Often dhe tle decd dt dn the unme of iat
friend, Dut dn olthorone of (hese cases he takes soo
eure Comake security doubly secured, by obliging
the paviles, whether wit or friend, to given counter
Riraatee mide tho form and: pledge of hy potheea:
thon or mortgages, amd for an estimate vatue
dondle the cost price of the yee erty, Tn dts
manner any fie properties, bath dn the towns
mn oud tn the: counties, in dierent: parts, belong
fo white reshlonta, Why, then, so mitel ery, prat:
te, and bother, latterly, most espechilly by Preach:
men, onthe aijectioat the 7th acdele of the Hays
tin national amd potltteal emit ds che sectal
aod mated peailon of tho Wneha dw whe
comntrics nny way equal to fiat whieh ds enloyed
Ile Havel by tho whites under the Black Govern:
ment? , ' . . ‘ . ‘ :

In matters conneoted with dhe rights of tho
Blick race, where a tho aplritot relproeity to bo
forum? Doves de oxdat da white comuteles, Groat
Urls atone excepted? Most assuredly tris not
{iy Martloteo, notin Gindaloupe, nor ta Cuba, ts
the principle recognized nnd) practived tno the
Undted States by tha Amerleana?

Vho Tl Atlee ofthe Consthiitdton preetiutes the
white atvanger fom paretushiayy lands, om
ownlag real estates Ibis awa nani lathe Bopnt:
they, bat he can bot le by dhe vet of dese aid
erage, whlel pridtege te would now, leap:
pears, brave extended coche Ad righted proprlotor:
hip, Fame opliton that che tine haw net yet
arelvend do narh the abrogation ot the dih Ardete
Witt dow Lge he eed of (ative peril for Che sie
slon, Wer Hib Article nnniadod, bnddvidiavta tna
etrela atom aocloty might) gala, pertiapa, by auch
AW ineaive, Due dhe Elavil peapte, generntly, wt
body, contd reap no honede trom ly and ndght
eventially: tome Chote independence, Ho nat thelr
Hherty, hoy wonkd coade, gradually, to bo whit
thoy ive, and aboutil ondeaverte bp. Ueda better
tor the Haydn: to goon slowly ned remain what
they have nade Chemmolves, dim to deopavdtiee ade
Drea atta! to tivaton an by fillielous aia,
On thhy queatlon they ahold moves lege: tte tie
ble of thon and thea, whe attempted fo cat
taty overyhody.  Ueaddes, tha autdoet boro deticate
in choracter, and vlint tia palitleatl apd national
pert at view, Chat, for seme dine vet lo come, the
levermmont, (ie wwonld aveld anaplelon on the
PAVE OT Cho reat Doddy ae the peapte, and provent
couotOn, Hmitiat dot adtompl do fonel le wlth
lawty hapradence,

On polillest quentions tam liberal, beth Wan
rension nid edieation, bit, to conte, Edo faethe
Kenai qonkina ail native praponaley at (te
White, or Caterdahin race, de apprapriate ta tte ti
tovedt Che chghitd tibertimes of the weak and

of the 7th Article of ‘our Constitution, which
would he at once just, safe, and moral. The Hay.
tian might make it lawful that any white person,
who has served the interest of the country with
disinterested zeal, who has protected and defended
the rights of the black from motives of humanity
and the love of justice, shall he entitled, if it is de-
served, to citizenship with the right of owning in
his own name real estates; these same rights be-
ing accorded to all such persons that have resided
in the country during a specified number of years,
and who have children by Haytian wives, to whom
they are Jawfully married. This much, [ think,
might be done without incurring danger; nor
should we allow ourselves to be detuded by vain il-
lusions since we know the Caucassian race have
been well schooled, from generation to generation,
in the course of centuries; the people of that race
have perfected themselves in the schools of ex peri-
ence and knowledge; they have acquired in the
the course of centuries great proficiency dans le
savoir fuire, in anything connected with their in-
terest and the perpetuity of their domination over
the other races, while, at the same period of time,
the blacks were studiously excluded from the ac-
quisition of every such advantages. It is just now,
only, that some few of them, here and there, are
about to enter the schools; they must not attempt
to compete too confidently with those consummate
adepts in the seience of political domination.
From what I know of the character of my own
people, and of the immeasurable ambition and
covetous genius of the whites in all their transac-
tions with this other race of men, I fear much that
were we to abrogate totally the 7th Article of the
Constitution at the present time, and allowed
white strangers, indiscriminately, the rights to ac-
quire and possess real estates in Hayti, it wonld
not be long ere we should see the creation of a
white and a black or negro town, tozether with the
accustomed lines of demarkation, just a3 it is in
Calcutta and elsewhere,—in fact, wherever they are
allowed to establish themselves, the spirit for en-
croachment has marked their presence there.
Were this to occur in Hayti, the white town might
gradually become the seat of Government, and a
troublesome power. Neither can I see or understand
how we could well separate the rights of the pro-
prietor, or frechold, from that for the exercise of
municipal privileges and of those whites, who
would be anxious to establish themselves amongst
us, in case the barrier now presented by the 7th
Article, which precludes them from owning real
estates in their own name, ceased to exist, and they
were made eligible to those in Hayti? Is it not to
be feared that, with few exceptions, those who are
eass, respectable, and honored at home, would nor
form the majority of the comers? Men and fam-
ilies of sucha class seldom, or never, scek in prefer-
ence, a life of privations and adventure, among a
peonle with whom they despise to amalgamate.
While African slavery continues to be cherished
and maintained by the whites in any part of the
West tndies, and in the United States, caution, cir-
cumspection, and a vigilant spirit of scrutiny
should distinguish the Haytians, and he the na-
tional characteristics of the Republic, with regard
to every project which counsels certain mutations
inthe chartof its national, political, and social
compact. However deeply solicitous the Republic
is to advance in the career of nations; however
prompt to seize the means to be employed in view
of snecess; however convinced itis, and should be,
of the necessity and wisdom for it to be guided by
the light which older and more fortunate nations
shed abroad hy the system of Government they
adopt, yet the Haytian Republic, heing in every re-
spect unique in its elements and differently consti-
tuted from other States and people, must not pre-
tend hastily, yet, to imitate foo closely certain ex-
amples, which for others are wise and beneficial,
but .for Hayti would affect, gravely, the funda-
mentat mechanism of its Constitution, and, eventa-
ally, its national integrity.
Here is a longer letter, my dear sir, than I choose
generally to trouble my friends with, but Lowe
you much for many kind attentions; it is therefore
right and necessary that some of my patients
should remain. impatient a short time, while 1
seribble these lines to you.
You are active by your nature, and zealous trom
temperament; we know it and approve of it; your
moral courage will conduct you on, while [ remaiu
Yours, most faithfully,

W. G. Smita.

COMMEROE OF HAYTI WITH THE U.S.
No. Vi.—Port of New York—[cone.upep.]

Important Statistios for Congressmen.

BY HENRY MELROSE.

Compiled for The Pine and Palm.
Having already spoken at some length concerh-
ing thecommervial relations botween Hayti and the

November 9.

credulons, whonever it conceived it might be done.
with impunity. The history of Toxts and the | Logwood, Sis. ...953,900 Cotton, bales...... 990
right of proprictorship, with its sequel, are yet too | Specic...........-83,146 7
recent to be overlooked by a weak and indicent November 16,
people. But, nevertheless, I think that something | Logwood, Bs. ....67,400 Yellow wood, ths. .2,000
might be cone in the way of modifying the spirit November 22—No returns.

November 230.

Logwood, tbs. .. .325,000 Coffee, baga.......1,920
Cotton, bales.....-.-40 Oranges. ..-...- «2,000
December 7—No retarns.

December 14.
Logwood, Ibs... .705,000 - Hemp, bales..........8
Cotton, bales........292 Honey, bbis. .
Coffee, bags.......-155

December 21.
Logwood, fis....314,000 Coffee, bags.......-.@
December
Logwood, tbs..1,206,100 Hemp, bales..........8
Coffee, bags........410

RECAPITULATION.
Logwood,s. . 10,750,550 Yellow wood, he. .6,300
Coffce, bags....,.14,679 Cocoa-nuts..........

Cotton, bales........705  Castor-oil seed, bbls. .35
Honey, bbls..... 22° , 2 000
Syrup, bbis..... cove elT
Mahowany, pes......84
Lignumvita, tbs 25,700

GEFFRARD INDUSTRIAL REGIMENT
CIRCULAR OF JOSEPH C. BUSTIIL. ,

HARRISBURG, Pa., Feb. 1, 1962.

It has heen deemed expedient to change the title
of the Geffrard Coffee Growers for the purpose of
removing the impression that it was a stock com-
pany, or that persons connected therewith coald
not engage in the cultare of any of the valuable
productions of Hayti but Coffee, Indigo, and Spice.
It will now be anderstood that each person thoezh
a member of the Reziment, will be entirely free to
cultivate whatever he may choose, and cngage in
any individnal or company enterprise that may
present inducements of honor or profit. The spe-
cial object of the Regiment is to anite in one body
for mutual strength, interest, influence, enterprise,
and social intercourse, all the means, intelligence,
and industry intending to emigrate to Hayti in the
Spring. As combination of purpose and prompti-
tude of acsion must ever prodace beneficial resulsa,
the cooperation of all individuals or associations
is earnestly solicited for the saccessfal accomplish-
ment of this yreat movement. Your connection
with the Reziment will not reqaire means, nor. will
expense be incarred, neither will it in any manner
interfere with the present arrangements of your_or-
ganizations. Your officers will retain and perform
the duties of their present: positions, your
ers acting as your special representatives, and
be in all respects as you were before connecting
yourselves with the regiment, exceptin name. A!
individnals will become members of Company A.
All associations will be designated alphabetically,
according to the date of their enrollment; for ex-
ample—

0. A, Capt.

O. C. Hughes, Harrisburg, Pa.

“« B, H. Molson, Lewistown, Pa.

«Cc, “ Wm. Thompson, Danville, Pa.

“ D, “ Wm. McCown, Tannery, 0.

« E, © Wm. E. Walker, Trenton, N. J. °
“ F, “ Wm: J. Scott, Buxton, C. W.

« G, “ Aaron M. Bland, Troy, N. ¥.

“ H, “  R.S. Jones, Pitsbarg, Pa.

“ 7, “ J. Gravson, New Worcester, Mass.
« J, “ Samuel H. Holland, Cincinnati, 0.
Aftera full and careful examination of all the

locations presented, Port de Paix, believed to be

the best, has been selected as the destination of the
Regiment; it is situated on the northwestern coast,
is an open seaport, having a good harbor, numer-
ous landing. places along the coast, is within a short
distance by land, of Port Margo and Cape Haystian,
with easy and expeditious communication by wa-
ter with Sr. Mark, Port-au-Prince, Miracoane,
Aquin, and all other places along the coast. It is
the nearest seaport to New York or Boston, posses-
sing the shortest route to either of these cities, and
having the advantave of the quickest passaze, will
greatly facilitate social and commercial inter-
course, the sale and shipment of all kinds of
produce, especially fruit, and the importation
of goods, stock, and machinery, &t cheaper rates,
and with lower fare. It possesses with Jérémie
and St. Mark, the most healthy, agrevable,
and salubrious climate in the whole Island.
The surrounding plain is exceedingly rich,
varied, and fertile, producing in abundance and of
the finest quality, every vecetable, frait, and tlow-
er of the tropics, while the neighboring hills and
mountains teem with rare plants for pertumery and
medicine, rarer woods for furniture, manufactures,
building, and ornaments, with inexhaustible stores
of the richest minerals and metals. The Depart
ment of the Northwest is thinly peopled and many
of the large [and proprietors desire to come to
terms of any hind with emigrants. Large lots of
ground can be obtained upon very favorable con
ditions. Twelve thousand acres are now in the
market. Paix, with allehese important advanta-

ges, presents inducements to emigrants and for ém-
from the Middle, Eastern: and Westera

Fe)

United Sraws, in the serivs of articles published

upon this subject in The Pine and Palm, sty
necessary, on this occasion, to go over the rend
we have already traversed. Wo shall content our
selves with merely enumerating the Haytian im-
ports kinded at the port of New York, during tho
last six months of the past year; and allow those
facts to speak for themselves,

The list of imports is necessarily not of au ex-
tensive chanieter, consisting, as it chietly does, of
tropical produets of various kinds; still, they serve
to indicate the importance of the commercial rela-
dens between the two countries, and to show that
if che Federal Government is not blind to the inter.
ests of its own merchants, a large share of chase
very comimeree may be diverted into European
channels, Heading the list of imparts, is logwood :
and of this alone, we tind chat upteards of ten and
three-quarters millions af pounds were imported
at New York alone, during the period wo have
mentioned.

OF conve, the imports were 1,679 bags; of cot.
ton, 705 bales; of lignumvite, 25,700 lbs.s of vol
low wood, 6,800 Ibs. ; and other products ina lesser
proportion.

Of the import of cotton, it may interest many
or the tvionds of Hagtiin this country, to know
that (ho importation of that staplo is: largely in-
erasing; and asa proof of this, We may mention
tho Met that we were tuformed a few days ago, by
n New York merchant who has most extensive
dealings with Hayth chat searvely 8 vessel now ays
tives frum chac country, without, dringing one or
more consignments of cotton. Those shipnwnts,
of course, vary i impertanes, from only a few
bales, to large consignments. Yet they Tndtvate
the good results whieh are aloeady: begtaning: to
flow Crom the wise and: statesmanhke measaies of
Geltrard, to develop tho industrial resources of that
beantitit Ishind, This dec demonstrates, too, that
where a tiny ith now trickles, a splondid: stream
may ove day flow; and through thoiustrumental-
tyof this very export, the slave systent et tho
Soud may wveeive, in cho marketot die world,
more forcible blow that has yee been dnticted upon
it,

In sunning up tho Tayi imports at New
York, for cho past year, we dnd that the quranti(y
of lowood weeived here, amonnted to close npon
trentioone inillion of pounds—-thoe precise Agnres
boluye 20,067,009 Tbs, Of codeo, tho import: hers
was S402 bags; of cotton, © was EGS8S8) bales at
Higaimyite, 226,555 Ths; honey, S82 bbts., 86 hues,
anil four domiohns; wahogany, 436 logs, and Ut

mickagess syrup, 27 Dhls; yellow wood, 6,800) Ibs;
Sragilwood, 12,000 lhs.; raaiterto wood, 2,000 ths, :
covornets, S00; castor olfseed, 85 barrels; oningys,
2.0005 herp, 16 bates; beeswax, 1 barrels and one
tiewes cotton yarn, (evitnported,) LOE bales: rags,
Seasks; cocoa, SO bags; wool, € bale; spirits, 2
barrels; Tiguimaviae ghie, Cobb; tobacce, tet
cases, amb tb lores; hides, G61; balsam, 38
crses tam S82.009 dn specto,

Those tgares, ib tiniest be borne da mihi sand for
the portot Now York alone. At Heston, the lia
ports ary, da some articles, nearly as auetis tn eth:
try, tite areaters and when dt is also nemenbtend
Crt ac tine of vessels salts regularly betwoon Haye
and Philadelphia, lowill be seou dag in the aggre
gate, these diiports aniauit tea very considorable
yur,

Annexed, ane tho friports thom duly to Decem:.
bor, U88t, as compiled: Som dhe cots of the
New York Shipphiuyg lst,

WAV EIEAN UMPORES EN LO VORT OF NEW YORK,
For the week ending ditty 3,

Togwood, Ibs, EI88850 Cotton, bates... .. oe
Catleo, bagasse. 2800

shuly 3,
Logawoud, tha. LOE RO Syrup, bab 8
Cotlee, bays... 6. 2. td Mahogany, POs ad
Haney, bb... ty

July a,

Logwood, tha Qu02e0 Sypapy, OO EN
Cama, Dagan... Psat Money, bbls y
duly 2?

Logwood, tha. 20000 Godlee, bags... G00
Atgast 3.

Lop wood, tbs... EEG) Corte, bags. cee ASSO

Angut 10,

Loywood, tha, 180,000 Comte, bard... TH
August U7,

Logavoddd, tha. AN ed Codbo, bua...
Atugunt St.

Logwood, than. 0eO Coma, bai. LOSS

Lhomiavdtay, tha 24,700 Coco nite... . 800

Yellow woud, ths, 4,800

From Angiat 86 to Septoniter tb, chere ave ne
returna,

ots

Soptombor vt.
Logwood, tba... 872000
Soplomber Vs,
Logwood, tle. Qh000 Muatogaty, pet. cit
OQotober J,

Logwood, tha Laat 2d Spode occ RUT doe
Clattoe, bigg £080
October (No rodirus,

October i,
Logavood, tha. EAet 00 Caatonoll avod, bbls. ah
Convo, bade tO Maagany, pest
Oetohor Wd,
Logwoad, tha... 100,000 Caitha, bags... SED

h: |

Watt BOHN e OVER py
we

Two hundred able-bodied recruits are wanted fo r
Company A. Sixteen acres of land will be enar -
anteed to every married man, aud. six acres to eve -
ry single man. Persons or associations desirous ¢ f
connecting theniselves with the Regiment vi |
please address immediately, stating age, ocer pa
tion, number, Ke, &e., —

Josern C. Bustin,
Box No. 225 PF. O., Harrisburg, F

THE NOR-WHSTBR OLUB.

CIRCULAR OF WIEUAN J. WATKINS.

aA Word to my BSriends, and to the BYiends of

Haytian Kniigratiea, generuily,

Fortac, Mich, Feb. 11, 2.

The work goes bravely on. Many waters cane
not quench it, nor sll the tleads drown it, Despite
tho unholy machinations of envy, the grass mis-
representatiors of disappointed dishonesty, Vulzar
ipudence, aud mental imbeciliw, the Taydan
Emigration Movement has suceceded bevond the
expectations of its most svalous advocates and welk
wishers. Firm in the conviction of its righteous
tess and practicnbility, LT have not, as an Agent af
tho Rinigration Barean, solicited or desinal exemp-
tion from the chilling breath of criticism.  T have
had neither time ver inclination te atteud to the
bark of every Titde cur tat tas yelped at my heels
to attnet public notion, But when U have found
honest opponents, Lhave endeavored to meet chen
in tho spirit of brotherly attection, and with that
liberality which should: be oxtandad: te chesy who
entertain ditterwut views fom these which elicit
our sytpathy and approval.

L propose to go to Rayd with my fanily in che
early pare ot May vext. Ub is my desire w gu at
that time as the leader of a colony of wen and wo-
toon of the right stamp, renin some six weeks in
the Republic, and ater visiting ho various points
of interest, return, Ged willing, to this country,
and give the peoplo who desire to hear, the result
of ay experionee and observation, Uhave already
Cho uantes of several persons who wish to emigrate
wader my inamediate supervision. Those desirous
of beooing wemders ot chis colony, Will corny.
pond at ones with LN. Cary, Es Deuwwit, Michi
gan. Canadian emigrants will addeess this gentle
trad Windser, CW.

Waid. WATKINS,
Agentor Haytian Euignation tor the Norwesturn
Stutes and Camida.

WR VIN AND VAAL

YUUUIMURD BYERY THURSDAY,
AC COE WASTUINGTON STRERT, BOSTON:
WY JAMEN RRDRATE, URUERIETOR.

RT Terms: Tae Dollare por anu, doarighy in ad-
Vartes > 2d cents adaldonal to Quiadinn sabserldeos, to cover
Milurnational postage. Noo suteertptian reewivead fiw ives
thaw wiv inonths.
2 Ubbwt: The clevation of the opprasiat Cassa and
Ravn of Mnertea.
CVA TRIBL TERS:

enn Metrwe,

Wiad. Wathiis,

Ver d Ry Staith,

Reto BW apes,
Mons. Wo Siith, Win. Wells Brow tg,
tee Payne, Wat, Neth,
Row, Mo nay, J.D. Marts,
Atal Upwarte of ane tamdnad Abalithouists, ated colored men
OF Atwerten amd Had,
Rx THUS AA SUMMRE ON THE BORDRES OF

UTS CARINALAN Ska, Be J. Donte tareis. Wath
su Trtvatuetiow ty eon Willan Cards. Lad. hae ,
pp TA Belew Te,

The aelielyal subject of ttle tateondlug book bea uals
fade te Cho bhant of Ula tl My. Vhoreta % an waktont of
Moveland, Re unate the veyage te various patiite on (he
Caribbean Soa, wlites vhow of secentlalig: whether any of
Uheut prev suet adaitages of soll aud clhuate ax to nike
dlodtovite abadiwe Rar chess ef (he ecatanad neow da the United
Rtatow who vty dealin to cntignates Cleceuad. Cee,
Reread,

wo At. Ulapele ts at oulatane hat {t le cho deatiuy of the
Wiese gaee Co Reta te Ete dvtarads a Me ale aud lee
pooev dicen of Contval Atmertea, an Angle Atteate ouptry of a
Wd deseo of efvitivation. Uo doulet tho tragh wh what
sure dant, (hat the aiilatte pace by net healthy aid pow
Utlo, nt boost withthe dhe tryplos, and elfen the tauthneny of
wt Sa te Nt Mery " prove that af all the fuhabitants
OF St Vatutoge, the aaetig txt tated ¥
Reonmy oat. Ke tenga tvet y
Thee who tay dy Aq munothlag of the Nlaqay of
ths Wetaunt of May tl, dll end dt opltoutiewdt ta thb tty word
Tae manor ao happy and tateneatig, (hat they will not be
Wiltlag to tay UE tow oye when dong ant will be eaapedend
to fd that Pooscotthe GHoltoun pea hee Gaunt a rivet tte
that of 6 catared man, Rew of oe yovtowsialter compare
WEY AH at TL fae elgane, Cleardaas, aii Rave dates
san Baptint.

Saat by mall to any adktreas on necetpt of the vetalt prio,
Por aalo ab the Qitloe of ‘an Vow ane Pata,

VS PUTERIRD oe Canes Mere MAb oF Tor Tae.

07 Any ay Tre -~ "thik la draw offer the “elttand Map
othe Reputite ve tatty! which te wckuewhatet bo be the
tbh. 1b boot tange ates, avd hand:

M boutd. Pele Ad cotta. St, fee ef pata, ty

“y Bal tond, or tool pt ad the above alaount.

fag WERE COLTON MOUNTED MLE OF THHLTSUAND OF TENTH
Vhte ty a lange and oxquilattaly dulahed Map of Hig dd, on
fllons, sulaptedt equally he the connting poorer the yar
tae, aoe Wt f)- poatage a anpreadagy by the Mutileler.

Hatred Redpath,

Ve. Thaw 1 Webb,
Aiea, Lawiwuee, dn,
Mous. SO Ades,

Adktwue ( Wootwowre Connag TR Weelinan ativet, New

Novombor Yer No roturid,

Vork.

